ALL RIGHT, WELCOME TO THE
TUESDAY JULY FIRST REGULAR
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED DEPUTY MANAGER KELLY,
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
CERTAINLY.
COMMISSIONER LEE, I'M HERE
COMMISSIONER WYCHE HERE.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE.
COMMISSIONER ABRAN HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH HERE NOTING
THAT COMMISSIONERS MILLS AND
ADAMS ARE ABSENT THIS EVENING.
>> COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE
HERE AND COMMISSIONER NORTON WE
HAVE A QUORUM.
>> GREAT.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WIJK SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION SAY I AND
HE OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE JUNE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY I BY ANY OPPOSED
SEEING ONE MOTION CARRIES WE'RE
GOING TO MOVE ON TO REPORTS TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS.
WE'RE GOING TO FIRST GO TO
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER OH I'M
SORRY I COMPLETELY FORGOT TO
PREPARE FOR THAT'S QUITE ALL
RIGHT.
>> I THINK THERE ARE A FEW
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS PASSED
NOTHING TO NOTE READ THE
PLANNING IF HELLO YOU.
OH YEAH I'M MR. LEONARD.
IT'S JUST IN THE MIDDLE
OF WRITING THAT MESSAGE IF
YOU'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO THE
MANAGER'S YES.
YES SIR.
I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT YOU'RE
UPCOMING MEETING FOR BOTH YOUR
WORKING SESSION AND ON THE
FIFTEENTH IS ALTHOUGH THERE ARE
NOT PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THAT
MEETING ON THE FIFTEENTH AND
OBVIOUSLY NOT YOUR WORKING
SESSION.
WE ARE GOING TO BE TALKING
THROUGH YOUR WORK PROGRAM AND
THEN I WANT YOU TO THINK ABOUT
THE ELECTIONS, YOUR CAPABLE
CHAIR UNFORTUNATELY CANNOT
SERVE ANOTHER CONSECUTIVE TERM
FOR YOU.
SO YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
ELECT FROM AMONG YOURSELVES.
THINK ABOUT WHAT YOU WOULD LIKE
TO SERVE FOR.
I WILL SEND OUT SOME EMAIL
REMINDERS AND YOU WILL ALSO
HAVE AN ANNUAL CHANCE TO REVIEW
YOUR BYLAWS.
THERE WAS JUST A LARGE UPDATE
SO YOU MIGHT HAVE ANYTHING BUT
THERE MIGHT YET BE SOMETHING
YOU'D LIKE TO ADJUST AND WITH
THAT OUT OF THE WAY I WANT TO
FOCUS ON SOMETHING BIG FOR OUR
TEAM.
CATHY KOWALSKI HAS SERVED AS A
PLANNER WITH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR SINCE THE YEAR 2000 OVER
TWENTY FIVE YEARS AND THIS IS
HIS LAST PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING AS HE RETIRES JULY 11TH
.
OVER THE YEARS MATT HAS
CONTRIBUTED TO NUMEROUS PLANS
SUCH AS THE NORTHEAST AREA
PLAN.
MORE RECENTLY PARKS AND
RECREATION OPEN SPACE PLAN MATT
WAS ON THE AIR FORCE TASK FORCE
AND HAS REVIEWED COUNTLESS
DEVELOPMENTS.
IT WAS SEVEN THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED DAYS AGO WHEN MATT
FIRST APPEARED BEFORE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND MAYBE
HE REMEMBERS HIS FIRST PETITION
.
WE WILL MISS HIS EXPERTIZE AND
HIS WARM DISPOSITION AMONG OUR
TEAM AND I WOULD LOVE TO INVITE
MATT TO REFLECT ON HIS SERVICE
AND COMMISSIONERS TO GIVE MATT
A WARM SENDOFF.
THANK YOU.
IT'S ONLY ABOUT 30 MINUTES
BEFORE YEAH.
YOU KNOW YEAH.
I DON'T WANT ANYTHING ELSE I
FEEL LIKE IT'S AN AWARDS
SPEECH.
I MEAN I JUST WANT TO THANK
EVERYBODY A LOT OF PEOPLE DOWN
HERE FOR TAKING A CHANCE ON ME
TWENTY FIVE YEARS AGO SO YOU
KNOW, WITH THAT I JUST GOT TO
SAY I'VE I'VE ALWAYS LOVED MY
JOB AND I STILL LOVE MY JOB.
IT'S LIKE LEAVING HERE IS NOT
REALLY LEAVING.
I DON'T WANT TO LEAVE THIS JOB
FOR SAY I'M JUST KIND
OF STARTING A NEW CHAPTER SO
DENHA IN LIKE LOOKING BACK ON
IT AND I CAN HONESTLY REFLECT
AND ALL THE THERE'S BEEN ALL
KINDS OF UPS AND DOWNS I'VE
SERVED WITH DIFFERENT KIND
OF MISSIONS, DIFFERENT
COUNSELS.
SOME OF YOU HAVE BEEN ON A LOT
LONGER THAN OTHERS.
JULIE, I KNOW WE GO BACK TO THE
OUR FIRST YEAR BEGAN BEFORE
THAT BUT I CAN JUST HONESTLY
SAY THERE'S NEVER BEEN REALLY A
DAY THAT I HATED MY JOB SO I
STILL AM I STILL LIKE WHAT I
DO.
I STILL LIKE INTERACTING WITH
THE PEOPLE EVEN EVEN WHEN WE
DON'T ALL AGREE.
YOU KNOW, I REALLY DON'T GET
VALUE FROM THAT.
SO YEAH I MEAN WITH THAT I I
STILL HAVE I YOU KNOW IN THE
PLANNING QUARTERS A LITTLE BIT
FOR THOSE I DON'T KNOW I'M
STILL ON THE DEXTRA PLANNING
COMMISSION WHICH I'VE BEEN ON
FOR TWENTY FIVE YEARS TO GET ME
OFF.
YEAH YEAH YEAH THAT'S THAT'S
REALLY ABOUT IT SO THANK YOU
EVERYBODY AND IT'S BEEN A GREAT
RUN.
THANK YOU
.
WOULD ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS
LIKE TO SAY A FEW WORDS ABOUT
MR. KOWALSKI'S SERVICE.
>> YEAH COMMISSIONER LEATHERBY
I'LL JUST SAY THAT WE WILL
REALLY MISS YOU BECAUSE YOU
WERE THERE WHEN I FIRST STARTED
DOING STUFF WITH CITY WORKING'S
WHEN I WAS OUT THERE ON THE
AUDIENCE YELLING AT THE PEOPLE
SITTING UP HERE.
SO I THINK YOU'VE BEEN A REALLY
GREAT ADDITION TO THE CITY AND
YOU REALLY HELPED A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
SO THANK YOU AND GOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
Q ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS LIKE
TO SAY A FEW WORDS?
>> I'LL JUST SAY THANK YOU.
IT'S BEEN A PLEASURE WORKING
WITH YOU FOR THE PAST SIX YEARS
AND I HOPE YOU'RE NOT A
STRANGER IF YOU CAN COME COME
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT EVERY NOW
AND AGAIN THANK YOU AGAIN I
WILL JUST DITTO TO THAT MATTER
IT'S GREAT WORKING WITH YOU AND
INTERACTING WITH YOU OVER THE
PAST SIX YEARS OF MY TIME I'M
GETTING QUESTION AND IT'S
CRAZY.
SO LIKE YOU STARTED YOUR JOB
WHEN YOU WERE LIKE TEN.
>> THAT'S AMAZING.
YEAH.
DO NOT BE A STRANGER.
SEE THE JOB DOESN'T YOU AT ALL
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
MATT, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
A QUARTER OF A CENTURY REALLY
MAKES IT EASIER FOR PEOPLE TO
CIVICALLY ENGAGED ESPECIALLY
WITH YOUR WARM AND HAPPY
DISPOSITION.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR
SERVICE.
YOU ALL RIGHT WITH THAT?
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO DO
OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS OR
LIAISONS ANYTHING TO REPORT.
ALL RIGHT.
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKETS.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE IT ALONG TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK THE THREE
MINUTES ON AN ISSUE THAT NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING AND
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE AND
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS STAR SIGN OFF ON
THE PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE
HAND FEATURE IN ZOOME FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND THEN OUR MEETING
IS NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS BY
THE LAST THREE HOURS THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME ON ZOOM
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
>> AND IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
HELLO WELCOME.
HELLO, I'M JEFF CROCKET.
I'M PLEASED TO BE HERE.
I AM A GOLFER OF SIXTY YEARS
WHO HAS LIVED AT FIVE OR SIX
EAST KINGSLEE FOR FORTY FIVE
AND I'VE LIVED IT FIVE OR SIX
YEARS KINGSLEE FOR FORTY FIVE
YEARS I PLAYED THE GOLF LEAGUE
OF TWELVE AT LESLIE PARK FOR
FIFTEEN YEARS I PLAYED NUMEROUS
TIMES AT LESSLIE PARK AND HERE
ON HILLS WITH MY SON AND LOVE
BOTH GOLF COURSES.
I AM DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
RECENT ATTACKS ON GOLF COURSES
BY MEMBERS OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THE CITY COUNCIL AND PRO
DENSITY SOCIAL MEDIA
INFLUENCERS RECENTLY HAS COME
TO MY ATTENTION THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN EXCLUDES
GOLF COURSES AND OTHER LOCAL
PARKS FROM THE PARKS
CALCULATION ON PAGE FIFTY SIX
WHILE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
INDICATES THAT THERE ARE
THIRTEEN POINT SIX ACRES
OF PARK LAND PER 1000 RESIDENTS
IN ANN ARBOR, THE LATEST PLAN
INDICATES THAT THERE ARE
ACTUALLY SEVENTEEN POINT NINE
SIX ACRES FOUR THOUSAND
RESIDENTS ACCORDING TO THE
CONDITION OF FACEBOOK POST THE
DISCREPANCY WAS NOT A MISTAKE.
IT WAS A JUDGMENT CALL.
THE PUBLIC OUTCRY RESULTED IN A
JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE
PLANNING AND PARK STAFF THAT
THERE ARE NO CURRENT PLANS TO
CLOSE THE GOLF COURSES AND THAT
THE ONLY WAY THAT COULD HAPPEN
WAS BY A CITY WIDE VOTE WAS
VERY HELPFUL INFORMATION.
IT WAS CLEARLY A MISTAKE TO
OMIT THE PROPOSED PLAN PART
PARK PLAN TOTAL OF SEVENTEEN
POINT NINE SIX EIGHT ACRES IN
THE CLUB AND NOT TO EXPLAIN THE
DISCREPANCY IT CAUSED CONFUSION
SOON AFTER A LOOPHOLE WAS
DISCOVERED THAT FEW PEOPLE KNEW
ABOUT WHICH ALLOWS THE CITY TO
CREATE NINETY NINE YEAR LEASES
TO REPURPOSE GOLF COURSES AND
PARKS TO PRIVATE DEVELOPERS.
ALL OF THIS UNCERTAINTY IS
GREATLY STRESSED THE ANN ARBOR
GOLF AND COMMUNITIES WHO WOULD
LIKELY MOUNT A FIERCE
OPPOSITION TO ANY CHANGES TO
THE GOLF COURSES CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS
NEED TO PASS A
RESOLUTION INDICATING THAT THE
GOLF COURSES AND PARKS WILL NOT
LEAST WITHOUT VOTER APPROVAL.
ALSO THE PLANNING PERMISSION
SHOULD INCLUDE STATEMENTS
SUPPORTING THE BENEFITS THAT
GOLFING PROVIDES.
I DO BELIEVE THAT PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO LIVE HERE IN GENERAL
ABOUT THE PLAN ARE BEING GIVEN
MORE CONSIDERATION IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAN THOSE
WHO HAVE LIVED HERE FOR DECADES
PAID PROPERTY TAXES TO FUND
YOUR SALARIES FOR GOVERNMENT
AND VOLUNTEERED WITHOUT
RECOGNITION FOR CITY
COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES.
MANY OF THESE PEOPLE FEEL
IGNORED AND DISMISSED BY THE
PLANS TO INCREASE DENSITY
ACROSS THE CITY WITHOUT
CONSULTING WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOODS IMPACTED.
IN CLOSING I WOULD LIKE TO SAY
THAT PUBLIC GOLF COURSES WERE
CREATED TO MAKE THE SPORT
ACCESSIBLE TO A WIDER
POPULATION INCLUDING THOSE WHO
COULDN'T AFFORD OR WEREN'T
PERMITTED TO JOIN PRIVATE
CLUBS.
THIS DEMOCRATIZATION OF GOLF
AIM TO PROMOTE COMMUNITY
RECREATION AND A HEALTHIER
LIFESTYLE FOR ALL NOT JUST FOR
THE ELITE.
THERE ARE TWENTY SEVEN GOLF
LEAGUES AT LESLEY PARK
INCLUDING SIX WOMEN GOLF
LEAGUES DURING THE PAST YEAR
THIRTY EIGHT THOUSAND ROUNDS
ARE PLAYED AT LESLIE WHILE
THIRTY THOUSAND ROUNDS WERE
PLAYED HERE ON THESE STATS
DEMONSTRATE THAT THE GOLF
COURSES PT. ONE OF THE CORE
VALUES OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN EQUITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> WELCOME.
OH HELLO I'M KIM WINNIK AND
I'VE BEEN A RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR FOR MORE THAN HALF OF MY
SEVENTY YEARS HERE ON EARTH.
I'M A LIFELONG DEMOCRAT AND
WHEN I SAY DEMOCRAT I MEAN WITH
A SMALL D AND A BIG D I WOULD
BE PREFERRED TO BE AT HOME
ENJOYING THIS PLEASANT EVENING
WITH MY FAMILY.
BUT HERE I AM.
IT BRINGS ME NO JOY TO MAKE THE
FOLLOWING REMARKS WHICH
UNFORTUNATELY NEED TO BE SAID.
IT IS APPARENT TO THOSE WHO
HAVE BEEN PAYING ATTENTION THAT
THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN IS TERRIBLY FLAWED.
THUS I NEED NOT REPEAT THE MANY
DEFICIENCIES IN THE PROPOSED
PLAN BECAUSE OTHERS HAVE ABLY
DONE SO.
RATHER I WISH TO USE MY
ALLOTTED TIME TO INDICATE SOME
TROUBLING AND FUNDAMENTAL
PROBLEMS WITH OUR GOVERNMENT
THAT INCLUDE BUT EXTEND BEYOND
JUST THIS LAND USE PROPOSAL
INFORMED PUBLIC IS NECESSARY
FOR GOOD GOVERNMENT AND
UNFORTUNATELY WITH THE DEATH
OF SUBSTANTIAL NEWS COVERAGE
AND COMMENTARY IN ANN ARBOR
THIS WE NO LONGER HAVE AS A
RESULT, OUR ELECTED CITY
GOVERNMENT HAS BECOME A
POLITICAL MACHINE LED BY OUR
MAYOR.
GOOD GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN
REPLACED BY A LACK
OF TRANSPARENCY, INFLUENCE
PEDDLING, IGNORING ACCEPTABLE
STANDARDS AND GASLIGHTED THE
PUBLIC.
THE MAYOR, THE CITY COUNCIL AND
THIS PLANNING BOARD HAVE
ADOPTED THE ATTITUDE THAT THE
ENDS JUSTIFY THE MEANS AND THAT
CITY RESIDENTS NEED TO BE LED
PERHAPS KICKING AND SCREAMING
BY THOSE WHO KNOW BEST.
THEY HAVE LITTLE INTEREST TO
KEEP THE PUBLIC WELL INFORMED
NOR DO THEY WISH TO LISTEN TO
THEIR CONSTITUENTS.
THEY ARE USING A SHOTGUN
APPROACH TO MAKE SO MANY
CHANGES QUICKLY THAT HAS BECOME
A GAME OF WHACK A MOLE TO
COUNTER THEM ALL REMIND YOU
OF SOMEONE ELSE IN OUR FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TIME PERMITS ME TO
ONLY HIGHLIGHT THE FOLLOWING
FEW EXAMPLES OF WHAT GOOD
GOVERNMENT SHOULD NOT DO
FAILURE TO AWARD CITY CONTRACT
TO THE LOWEST BIDDER CAPABLE
OF DOING THE WORK CENTRALIZE
CAMPAIGNS PARTIALLY FUNDED BY
LABOR UNIONS OUTSIDE THE CITY A
CONCERTED EFFORT TO MISLEAD THE
PUBLIC AND OPPOSE ELECTION
REFORM SUCH AS PROPOSAL C AND D
ATTEMPTS TO ADD OPPOSING
LANGUAGE TO A CITIZENS
INITIATED BALLOT PROPOSAL WITH
THE INTENT TO GET DEFEATED AT
THE POLLS.
THIS EFFORT, BY THE WAY, WAS
LATER DECLARED ILLEGAL BY AN
APPELLATE COURT IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN MAKING SWEETHEART
DEALS WITH A LOCAL PROPERTY
OWNER WHO HAS THREE DIFFERENT
NAMES AND TWO FELONY
CONVICTIONS SUGGESTING THAT WE
USE PUBLIC MONEY TO BUILD A
PARKING GARAGE FOR A PRIVATE
DEVELOPER IN A TRANSIT ZONE
WHERE WE ARE SUPPOSEDLY
DISCOURAGING THE USE
OF VEHICLES REMOVING THE
DESIGNATION OF OUR PUBLIC GOLF
COURSES AS PARKLAND AS YOU JUST
HEARD FROM JEFF AS A BACK DOOR
METHOD TO PERHAPS SELL THESE
PROPERTIES TO A DEVELOPER
FAILING TO DISAVOW LITERATURE
THAT CONTAINS UNTRUE STATEMENTS
MADE BY POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS
THAT SUPPORT THE MAYOR AND THE
COUNCIL TO CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS FAILURE TO ADHERE
TO THE CURRENT MASTER OF LAND
USE PLAN, FAILURE TO FOLLOW
THROUGH ON CITIZENS INITIATED
BALLOT PROPOSALS THAT HAVE BEEN
PASSED BY THE VOTERS USING TAX
TO SUPPORT THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THE NEW LIBRARY EVEN THOUGH
THERE WAS A BALLOT INITIATIVE
THAT WAS DEFEATED BY THE VOTERS
WHEN IT WAS A TO DO SO.
THANK YOU.
ETHICAL BEHAVIOR WAS NOT THANK
YOU OUR CITY GOVERNMENT IS NOT
WELL RUN EITHER.
OUR TAXES ARE EXTREMELY HIGH.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU OUR
CITY GOVERNMENT THANK YOU.
HI WELCOME.
>> BUT IT IS GARFINKLE KOKANEE
ONE THREE NINE ACTUALLY MEUS
DRIVE.
FIRST OFF WE NEED DENSER
HOUSING AND WE NEED TO ACT WITH
URGENCY.
I TRAGICALLY HAVE NOT BEEN IN
ANN ARBOR SINCE NINETEEN
SEVENTY FIVE BUT I WILL BE IN
MY EIGHTIES IN TWENTY SEVENTY
FIVE AND SO I VERY INVESTED IN
WHAT ENTERABLE WILL LOOK LIKE
WHEN I'M HERE IN FIFTY YEARS
AND THAT'S WHAT THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS ABOUT.
IT'S A VISION FOR OUR FUTURE
NOT OUR PAST.
IT ANSWERS THE QUESTION WHAT DO
WE WANT ANN ARBOR TO LOOK LIKE
DECADES FROM NOW?
WHAT IS THE ANN ARBOR WE'RE
PASSING ON TO OUR CHILDREN AND
OUR GRANDCHILDREN?
WHAT I THINK ABOUT THE FUTURE
THERE'S SOMETHING THAT'S
IMPOSSIBLE TO IGNORE.
WE ARE IN A CLIMATE EMERGENCY.
WE HAVE ALREADY SEEN CLIMATE
CHANGE MAKE OUR PLANET AND OUR
CITY LESS HOSPITABLE.
>> OUR RECENT HEAT WAVES, PAST
FLOODS, STORMS AND POWER
OUTAGES ARE ONLY GOING TO GET
WORSE NOT BETTER.
PART OF MY VISION FOR A SHARED
FUTURE IS IN ANN ARBOR WHERE WE
LIVE MORE SUSTAINABLY AND ALLOW
FOR THRIVING DESPITE THIS LESS
HOSPITABLE CLIMATE, OUR
SUBURBAN PATTERN OF DEVELOPMENT
HAS MASSIVELY CONTRIBUTED TO
CLIMATE WE ARE IN NOW WE NEED A
NEW PATH AND WE NEED IT NOW.
THE BEST TIME FOR BOLD ACTION
WAS THIRTY YEARS AGO.
THE NEXT US TIME IS NOW.
MY VISION FOR THE FUTURE
OF ARBOR IS ONE WHERE I TO ALL
THE THINGS THAT I NEED WORK
SCHOOL PARKS AND GROCERY STORES
.
IT'S WHERE I CAN SPEND MORE
TIME WITH THE COMMUNITY RATHER
THAN IN A LARGE HOME.
IT'S ONE WHERE WE HAVE ENOUGH
DENSITY TO MAKE QUIRKY AND FUN
STORES VIABLE BECAUSE THERE'S
ENOUGH FOOT TRAFFIC AND ONE
WHERE THERE'S A LOT MORE
TAXPAYERS RELIEVING PRESSURE ON
MY TAXES.
I AM A TAXPAYER FOR MORE
TAXPAYERS INACTION IS
UNTENABLE.
I ASK THOSE OPPOSED TO THIS
VISION WHAT IS THEIR
ALTERNATIVE IF IT IS TO
PRESERVE THE NUMBER OF FIFTY
YEARS AGO THIS ASKS YOUNG
PEOPLE TO BURY THEIR HEADS IN
THE SAND IN THE FACE OF A
CLIMATE EMERGENCY.
WE HAVE REAL PROBLEMS AND WE
DON'T HAVE THE PRIVILEGE
OF IGNORING THEM.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO REMIND FOLKS
THAT THIS GOLDEN ERA OF ARMOR
IN THE SEVENTIES CAME AFTER THE
BIGGEST POPULATION BOOM IN OUR
HISTORY WHEN THE POPULATION
MORE THAN TRIPLED IN SIZE OVER
A 30 YEAR PERIOD.
IT IS CRUEL TO BENEFIT THE TO
BENEFIT FROM THE RAPID
EXPANSION OF OUR TOWN AND THEY
DENY FUTURE GENERATIONS ANY
SIMILAR OPPORTUNITY.
WE SHOULD NOT CONTINUE TO
PRESERVE A PAST THAT WAS
CERTAINLY GREAT FOR SOME PEOPLE
BUT WAS ALSO QUITE TERRIBLE FOR
MANY OTHERS WHO DON'T GET THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK IN FRONT
OF YOU INSTEAD I URGE THIS
COMMISSION TO BE BOLD IN
THINKING ABOUT WHAT THE FUTURE
OF ANAMBRA CAN BE FOR ALL
RESIDENTS THOSE WHO ARE HERE
AND THOSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO BE
I WANT A FUTURE OF EQUITY
DIVERSITY THRIVING AND
ABUNDANCE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU AND ME FOR THE SIX
ONE SIX MILLER RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR SINCE NINETEEN EIGHTY
EIGHT AND HOMEOWNER SINCE
NINETEEN NINETY EIGHT I SUPPORT
THIS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
APPRECIATE THE ADDITIONAL
DETAIL PROVIDED IN THE SECOND
VERSION WE NEED MORE MIDDLE
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR HOUSING
THAT IS AFFORDABLE TO THOSE AT
THE 80 TO 120 PERCENT OF AREA
MEDIAN INCOME AND AFFORDABLE TO
YOUNG FAMILIES.
YOUNGER FAMILIES THAT WANT TO
RENT OR OWN IN ANN ARBOR.
I WOULD LIKE THE CITY LIKE FOR
THE CITY TO DO MORE AND SOONER
TO PROVIDE THIS KIND OF HOUSING
AND TO DO SO BY WORKING WITH
THE EXISTING STOCK OF SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES AND EXISTING
HOMEOWNERS TO SCALE AND TO USE
EXCESSIVELY DWELLING UNITS
WHETHER THERE'S THROUGH
CONVERSION OF EXISTING HOMES OR
NEW ADDITIONS TO FACILITATE
THIS.
I BELIEVE THAT A NEW STANDARD
SHOULD BE RELAXED IN TRANSITION
IN TRANSITION ZONES AND OTHER
CORRIDORS OR BY TRANSIT
STANDARDS RELATED TO FOR
EXAMPLE PARCEL SIZE UNIT SIZE
AND ESPECIALLY SEPARATE
OWNERSHIP IF YOU OWNERS COMMIT
TO LONG TERM AFFORDABILITY
THROUGH A THROUGH PARTNERSHIP,
THE LAND TRUST OR VIA DEED
RESTRICTION, THEN THERE SHOULD
BE ADDITIONAL FLEXIBILITY AND
INCENTIVES SUCH AS FEE WAIVERS
,PROPERTY TAX RELIEF ETC.
THERE'S A SIZABLE POPULATION
OF HOUSE RICH FAMILIES AND I
KNOW AT LEAST THREE WOMEN WHO
WANT TO DO THIS IN THE CITY,
MANY OF WHOM WHO MANY OF WHOM
WANT TO CONTRIBUTE TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING SOLUTIONS
BUT NEED MORE SUPPORT IN TERMS
OF PREDEVELOPMENT DESIGN
PERMITTING AND MANAGING
CONSTRUCTION IN YORK NOT IN
YOUR IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX FOR
ONE POINT TO DIVERSIFY HOUSING
TYPES, I URGE YOU TO EXPEDITE
THE TIME FRAME TO ONE TO THREE
YEARS.
SAME FOR THE CATEGORIES IN ONE
TO FOUR ONE POINT FOUR FOUR ONE
POINT THREE.
I RECOMMEND ADDING MEASURABLE
AFFORDABILITY TO YOUR CRITERION
RIGHT NOW IT SAYS MEASURABLE
SUSTAINABILITY JUST ALSO JUST
AS YOU SUGGEST WORKING WITH THE
UNIVERSITY AND OTHER ACTORS FOR
ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT I
SUGGEST BRINGING TOGETHER
LARGER EMPLOYERS SUCH AS THE
UNIVERSITY TO EXPLORE ROLES
THEY CAN PLAY TO SUPPORT
HOUSING FOR ESSENTIAL BUT LOW
WAGE WORKERS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION.
YOU THANK YOU.
HI, WELCOME TO
HELLO.
>> HI THIS IS SPETZ.
I LIVE AT EIGHT OR NINE JOHNNY
WOODS DRIVE A SINGLE FAMILY
HOME OWNER.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK.
I APPRECIATE YOUR WORK AND I'M
HERE IN SUPPORT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ALTHOUGH I'M
ADDRESSING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION I'M REALLY HERE TO
SPEAK TO THE OF THE PLAIN GROUP
LESLIE MARMON SILKO, ONE OF THE
MANY NATIVE ELDERS WHO I HOLD
AS HEROES SAID SOMETHING THAT
HITS THIS NAIL
ON THE HEAD
THINGS WHICH DON'T SHIFT AND
GROW ARE DEAD THINGS
FORTUNATELY IN ARBOR'S VERY
MUCH ALIVE OUR CITY IS CHANGING
AND GROWING AND DESPERATELY
NEEDS TO GROW MORE THIS IS A
GREAT EFFORT TO STEER THAT
GROWTH IN A HEALTHY DIRECTION.
MY FULL TIME CAREER WAS IN
ARCHITECTURE PROMOTING
SUSTAINABLE DESIGN.
MY BIGGEST FOCUS NOW IS ON
DOING EVERYTHING I CAN DO TO
ADDRESS CLIMATE EMERGENCY
MOTIVATED BY LOVE OF OUR MORE
THAN HUMAN RELATIVES, ALL OTHER
SPECIES AND EVEN AS HUMANS
HAVEN'T YOU EVER SAT IN TRAFFIC
ON A FREEWAY, LOOKED AROUND AT
THE HEALTH ESCAPE AND THOUGHT
WE ARE DOING THIS SO WRONG WE
CAN DO BETTER, WE HAVE TO DO
BETTER AND WE HAVE TO DO IT NOW
INDIVIDUAL LIVES CAN'T MAKE AN
IMPACT ON THE SCALE NEEDED.
WE HAVE TO CHANGE THE FAILING
SYSTEM.
THIS PLAN WILL DO THAT.
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY TO HUGELY
REDUCE VEHICLE.
MILES TRAVELED A MAJOR CLIMATE
WHEN THERE ARE SOMETHING LIKE
70000 COMMUTERS INTO THE CITY
EVERY DAY.
WE DON'T NEED TO PAUSE THE
PLAN.
WE NEED TO STEP UP THE PACE.
HOW LONG DO YOU WANT TO KEEP
DELIBERATING DEBATING PERFECT
SOLUTIONS WHILE OUR HOUSE BURNS
DOWN AROUND US COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT THIS PLANE STARTED
IN FALL OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE
ALMOST TWO YEARS AGO.
LOOK AT THE CHANGES MADE FROM
THE FIRST TO THE SECOND DRAFT
PLANNERS ARE LISTENING TO US.
THEY ARE MAKING THE CHANGES
WE'RE ASKING FOR AND HOUSES
HAVE BEEN BUILT INTO THE
PROCESS AT EVERY STEP EVEN
AFTER A CITY COMMISSION
APPROVES THE DRAFT THERE'S
STILL A SIXTY THREE DAY PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD.
SIXTY THREE MORE DAYS
OF SEVENTY THOUSAND COMMUTERS A
DAY.
WE NEED MORE HOUSING WHERE THE
JOBS ARE.
FOR 11 YEARS WE'VE LIVED JUST
DOWN THE STREET FROM AVALON'S
TWENTY UNIT STREET APARTMENTS
AND RIGHT AROUND THE CORNER
FROM A RENTAL TRIPLEX.
OUR INTERACTIONS WITH THESE
NEIGHBORS HAVE NEVER CAUSED US
TROUBLE OR WORRY.
SOME BECOME PEOPLE WE CHAT WITH
WHILE THEY WALK THEIR DOGS.
THEY'RE PLAIN NEIGHBORS THE
PAUSE THE PLAN SIGNS SAY IN AN
ATTEMPT TO ALARM DO YOU KNOW
YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD IS BEING
REZONED?
I SAY BRING IT ON CORRECT.
THE EXCLUSIONARY ZONING
IMPLEMENTED IN THIS COUNTRY WAS
EVEN MORE OVERTLY RACIST THAN
IT IS NOW.
YES, PLEASE.
AND AS FAR AS THE PATENTLY
FALSE RUMORS CIRCULATED ON
FACEBOOK THAT THE CITY PARKS
WILL BE TURNED OVER FOR
DEVELOPMENT PLEASE WHOEVER
STARTED THAT SHAME ON YOU
PLAYING ON FEAR AND HATE ARE
WRONG AND WE ARE SEEING THE
DAMAGE THOSE TACTICS ARE DOING.
THIS PLAN IS AN OVERDUE WIN FOR
CLIMATE, FOR FAIRNESS AND FOR
DIVERSITY.
I APPLAUD THE PLAN IN THE
PROCESS.
>> THANK YOU.
HI WELCOME.
HI I'M SUSAN MARGAUX'S IS I
LIVE AT 615 FOUCHE STREET IN
WHAT IS HISTORICALLY WEST SIDE
AND WHO IS NAMED WATER HILL
MORE RECENTLY I PURCHASED A
HOME THERE JUST IN FEBRUARY
OF LAST YEAR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
HAVING LIVED OUT OF OUTSIDE
OF MICHIGAN FOR MANY YEARS
AFTER I GRADUATED FROM SCHOOL
HERE I MOVED BACK INTO MICHIGAN
WHERE MOST OF MY FAMILY IS
AFTER I WAS NEWLY WIDOWED AND
LOOK FOR A HOME AND THAT WAS
LIKE NOVEMBER OF TWENTY THREE
AND SO MY REALTOR KNEW NOTHING
ABOUT THE CLUB.
TAKE THAT FOR WHAT IT IS SHE
KNEW NOTHING ABOUT IT AS I
SEARCHED FOR HOMES AND I FOUND
A GREAT HOUSE STREET HAPPY
THERE IT'S A HOUSE BEHIND
ANOTHER HOUSE THAT WAS AN
ADDITIONAL HOME BUILT BEHIND AN
EXISTING HOME BUT I WAS SHOCKED
TO LEARN ABOUT THE CLUB THROUGH
READING NEXT DOOR IN MARCH
OF THIS YEAR.
NOW MY COMMENTS ACTUALLY ARE
JUST GOING TO FOCUS ON
TRANSITION ZONE.
THERE'S A LOT TO TALK ABOUT BUT
I THINK I'LL DO THAT JUST
LOOKING AT THAT IT REALLY IS
SOMETHING THAT MOST AFFECTS ME
AND MY IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORS
ALONG FILCH AND CERTAINLY MANY
OTHERS.
SO MY HOME AS I SAID IS BEHIND
ANOTHER HOME.
I'M VERY CLOSE TO THE PROPERTY
LINE BETWEEN ME AND RESIDENTS
OF MILLER.
NOW MOST OF YOU KNOW THAT
MILLER AVENUE IS BEING PUT INTO
A TRANSITION ZONE.
>> SO I'M RIGHT NEXT TO THE
TRANSITION ZONE HERE.
THE PROPERTIES DIRECTLY BEHIND
AND WITHIN FEET OF MY HOME ARE
DESIGNATED TO BE QUOTE A
FLEXIBLE MIXED USE DISTRICT TO
ACCOMMODATE RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
EMPLOYMENT USES.
THAT'S FROM PAGE 115 OF DRAFT
TO THIS PORTION OF MILLER
AVENUE IS CURRENTLY OCCUPIED BY
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND
DUPLEXES.
THE BUILDING USES IN DRAFT
NUMBER TWO FOR TRANSITION ZONE
ESTATES RESIDENTIAL THAT WOULD
INCLUDE LOW AND HIGH RISE UP TO
ONE HUNDRED FEET IN HEIGHT.
BUT THE ONE HUNDRED FEET AS I
UNDERSTAND IT WOULD BE ADJACENT
TO HUB'S.
I DON'T KNOW HOW FAR OUT THEY
WOULD THOSE BRED INTO THE
TRANSITION ZONE.
SO THAT'S A QUESTION ALSO
COMMERCIAL RETAIL COMPLEXES,
OFFICES, INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSES
ALL THOSE COULD BE DIRECTED
DIRECTLY BEHIND MY HOUSE LIKE
WITHIN FEET OF MY HOUSE SO I'M
NOT HAPPY.
THE PLAN NOTES THAT THE IMPACT
OF PARKING COULD BE MINIMIZED
BY SCREENING AND LOCATING
PARKING IN THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING.
FOR ME PERSONALLY AND MANY
OTHERS THAT'S NO GAIN.
I MEAN THAT MAXIMIZES THE
IMPACT FOR ME TO HAVE A PARKING
LOT RIGHT IN MY BACKYARD.
THE PREFERRED BUILDING FORM IS
DESCRIBED AS CONTEXT SENSITIVE
HEIGHT WITH LOWER SMALLER
BUILDINGS ADJACENT TO
RESIDENTIAL AND TALLER AND MORE
INTENSE DEVELOPMENT NEAR HUBS.
BUT WHO DECIDES THAT SO THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
WELCOME JEFF.
FIFTH WARD.
I WANT TO SAY THAT I THINK A
DRAFT PLAN IS HEADING IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION IN TERMS
OF MOVING THE DIAL TOWARD
SUSTAINABLE LAND USE PRACTICES
MOSTLY BY PROVIDING TONS
OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR ADDITIONAL
DWELLINGS THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I DO HAVE ONE SUGGESTION PLEASE
CONSIDER REPLACING THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT WITH THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ALONG MILLER ROAD
AND THE KOREATOWN NEIGHBORHOOD
NORTH OF KINGSLEE EAST OF MAINE
.
THERE ARE THREE REASONS WHY I
BELIEVE THE CHANGE IS
WARRANTED.
ONE BECAUSE THE DRAFT PLAN IS
MAKING LANDY'S RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT MAY RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL
INCREASES IN DWELLING UNITS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
I THINK DECISION MAKERS CAN BE
A LITTLE BIT MORE SELECTIVE
ABOUT WHICH NEIGHBORHOODS GET
INCLUDED IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT AND ARBER CAN MEET ITS
HOUSING AND SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS WITHOUT ADDING THESE TWO
SMALL, HISTORIC, UNIQUE AND
SUSTAINABLE NEIGHBORHOODS INTO
THE TRANSITION DISTRICT TO
EVERY GREAT AMERICAN CITY HAS
BEEN ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE
TREMENDOUS GROWTH WHILE AT THE
SAME TIME CARING FOR A HANDFUL
OF OLDER NEIGHBORHOODS.
SEATTLE HAS ACCOMMODATED
ENORMOUS GROWTH WHILE
PROTECTING SPECIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE QUEEN ANNE
WHICH IS NOT IN AN HISTORIC
DISTRICT BUT MOSTLY PROTECTED
BY ZONING DISTRICT CALLED
NEIGHBORHOOD RESIDENTIAL.
THE KOREATOWN NEIGHBORHOOD
NORTH OF KINGSLEE WAS PLANTED
IN EIGHTEEN THIRTY EIGHT AND
HAS MICRO SINGLE FAMILY HOMES,
DUPLEXES, TRIPLEX ACCESS FOR
PLEXUS TOWNHOMES, BRICK ROW
HOMES A FORMER AFRICAN-AMERICAN
CHURCH FROM EIGHTEEN NINETY ONE
THAT HAS BEEN CONVERTED TO
RESIDENTIAL A BRICK BREWERY
FROM 1858.
IT HAS BEEN CONVERTED TO SEVEN
DWELLING UNITS AND SITS NEXT TO
THE BREWMASTERS HOME, WHICH IS
CONSTRUCTED IN 1873.
IT ALSO HAS THE TOTAL HOUSE
WHICH IS BUILT IN EIGHTEEN
THIRTY FIVE AND IS ONE OF THE
OLDEST HOMES IN ANN ARBOR.
THE DENSITY OF THIS AREA VARIES
FROM BETWEEN 12 AND 15 DWELLING
UNITS PER ACRE DEPENDING ON THE
SECTION YOU'RE IN IN OTHER
WORDS, THE KOREATOWN
NEIGHBORHOOD NORFOLK IS ALREADY
DIVERSE, DENSE AND SUSTAINABLE.
THE MILLER ROAD CORRIDOR
INCLUDES MULTIPLE 19TH AND
EARLY 20TH CENTURY HOMES.
THE SCHILTZ HOME WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN 1843 AND BY 1850
MORE THAN A DOZEN HOMES LINED
NEAR THE CORRIDOR ALSO INCLUDES
A DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPES.
THE DRAFT PLAN SHOWS AT THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT WOULD
EXTEND AT LEAST THREE HUNDRED
FEET INTO THE MIDDLE OF ROAD
NEIGHBORHOOD ON BOTH SIDES.
BOTH OF THESE AREAS WERE BOTH
KOREATOWN MILLER WERE
HISTORICALLY AFRICAN-AMERICAN
NEIGHBORHOODS AND ARE THE ONLY
NINETEENTH CENTURY
NEIGHBORHOODS IN ANN ARBOR NOT
PROTECTED BY AN HISTORIC
DISTRICT EVERY AND THEN MY
THIRD AND FINAL POINT IS THAT
EVERY RECENT PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE
KOREATOWN MILLER ROAD AREA HAVE
BEEN EXPENSIVE CONDOS.
I DON'T SENSE A GROUNDSWELL
OF SUPPORT FROM THE COMMUNITY
TO GRADUALLY CONVERT THESE TO
HISTORIC, SUSTAINABLE AND
HISTORICALLY AFRICAN-AMERICAN
NEIGHBORHOODS INTO MILLION
DOLLAR CONDOS.
BUT THAT IS WHAT THE PLAN IS
RECOMMENDING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS MR. VON.
HELLO.
>> HELLO.
MY NAME'S WILL LEAVE I THINK
THE SECOND HALF IS MUCH BETTER
THAN THE FIRST DRAFT AND I
WOULD JUST MAKE A FEW MEDIUM
SMALL SUGGESTIONS.
>> ONE IS TO STRIKE THE
LANGUAGE IN CHAPTER FIVE ABOUT
PREPARING ACTIVE USES IN HUB IN
TRANSITION ACTIVE USES MEANING
RETAIL MAYBE SOME OTHER BUT
MOSTLY RETAIL USES.
I THINK THERE'S HUNDREDS
OF SINGLE FAMILY HOMES IN THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT CURRENTLY
ON ARTERIAL STREETS AND I THINK
IT'D BE GOOD TO REASSURE PEOPLE
THAT THERE ARE SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSE IS NOT GOING TO BECOME A
NON CONFORMING USE WITH GROUND
RETAIL REQUIRE.
THAT WOULD BE A VERY GOOFY
IMPOSITION AND I DON'T THINK
ANYONE ACTUALLY INTENDS THAT.
SO I THINK IT COULD BE GOOD TO
JUST CLARIFY THEY'RE ALSO IN
THAT SAME SECTION IT SAYS LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL USE IS ALLOWED IN
HUB AND THEN INDUSTRIAL USE IS
ALLOWED IN TRANSITION.
I THINK YOU COULD JUST BE
REASSURING AND MORE ACCURATE BY
SAYING INDUSTRIAL USES THAT ARE
SAFE AND COMPLY WITH THE CITY'S
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS ARE
ALLOWED.
AND I KNOW THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
WORDY BUT I THINK WORDING IS
HERE IS JUSTIFIED BECAUSE YOU
CAN REASSURE PEOPLE AND BE MORE
CLEAR AT NO COST.
SO THOSE TWO AND THEN I ALSO
THINK THERE'S JUST ONE SPOT ON
THE MAP THAT IS KIND OF SUBTLE
AND I'M JUST AT FIRST BUT I'M
IN WASHED-OUT WHERE THE ROCKIES
IS CURRENTLY MARTILLO.
IT'S CURRENTLY MARKED
RESIDENTIAL
AND I THINK THE
CONSULTANTS DID THAT BECAUSE
IT'S HARD TO BE CURRENTLY WHICH
IS WHERE FRATERNITIES AND
SORORITIES ARE ALLOWED.
THAT AREA IS ALL FRATERNITIES
AND SORORITIES AND THE
EXISTENCE OF THAT RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT IS GOING TO LIMIT
HEIGHTS ON SMU AND THE STUDENT
NEIGHBORHOODS TO THE NORTH.
SO I THINK THAT'S ACTUALLY
THAT'S ONE CHANGE COULD BE NOT
VERY CONTROVERSIAL AND COULD
ALSO ALLOW MUCH MORE HOUSING
WHERE THERE ALREADY ARE TALL
BUILDINGS AND IT'S REALLY BADLY
NEEDED.
SO I WOULD JUST LOOK AT THAT
LITTLE AREA SPECIAL ATTENTION
FINALLY I THINK THE BAR FOR AN
HOUR ONE ON THAT TOPIC I GUESS
OF HOW TO CONVERT THE STATUS
QUO TO A NEW CLASSIFICATION.
I THINK THERE ARE ONE DISTRICT
UP SEVEN TO TRANSITION ON THESE
ARTERIAL ROADS IS PROBABLY
GOING HAVE VERY LITTLE EFFECT
BECAUSE THERE'S TAPERING RULES
BUILT IN.
SO I THINK THAT'S A PLACE WHERE
COMPROMISE WOULD BE REASONABLE
WHEREAS THE AR4 AND EXISTING
HIGH DENSITY MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING IS PROBABLY THAT'S ONE
PLACE WHERE YOU COULD REDEVELOP
WITH MINIMAL CONTROVERSY.
SO I THINK IT WOULD BE
REASONABLE TO FOCUS MORE ON
ALLOWING THOSE ARE FOR AREAS TO
BE TRANSITIONED AND TRADING
SOME R-1 AREAS.
I THINK YOU MIGHT GET A BETTER
PLAN AS A RESULT.
>> OK, THAT'S A THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
LLO MY NAME IS ANDREW SMITH.
I LIVE AT SEVENTEEN THIRTY FIVE
IN NORTHBROOK DRIVE.
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD BUT
IN THE PAST I HAVE ALSO LIVED
IN THE FIFTH WARD AND THE
SECOND WARD.
MY DAILY BICYCLE COMMUTE TAKES
ME THROUGH THE FIRST OF THE
THIRD WARDS SO I GET AROUND.
I HAVE WORKED IN ANN HARBOR
SINCE NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR SINCE
NINETEEN SEVENTY TWO.
ONE OF THE TALKING POINTS HAS
BEEN THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR AND I KNOW A LOT OF THOSE
PEOPLE MANY OF THEM ARE MY
COLLEAGUES AND THEY OFTEN SAY I
WISH I COULD LIVE TO ANN ARBOR.
THEY USUALLY SAY THAT WHEN
THEY'RE SITTING AT A PICNIC
TABLE IN MY BACKYARD AND THEY
SEE THAT I HAVE A PLACE FOR A
VEGETABLE GARDEN ROOM FOR A PET
OR A CHILD TO PLAY WHEN PEOPLE
SAY THEY WOULD LIKE TO LIVE IN
ANN ARBOR I BELIEVE THEY'RE
ENVISIONING A SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING AND NOT LIVING ON THE
FOURTH FLOOR OF SOME HIGH RISE
.
THE ISSUE OF GREEN SPACE WAS
VERY HOT A NUMBER OF YEARS TO
GO AND THE CITY COUNCIL WAS
WORKING TO MAXIMIZE EVERY
POTENTIAL FOR GREEN SPACE AND
YOU HAVE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND EQUALLY IMPORTANTLY THE
ZONING LAWS THAT WOULD BE
SHAPED BY THAT PLAN SEEM TO BE
HEADING US IN A DIFFERENT
DIRECTION THAT MORE SQUARE FEET
OF THE AREA WITHIN THE CITY
LIMITS WOULD BE COVERED BY
ASPHALT OR CONCRETE AND THERE
WOULD ACTUALLY BE LESS
GREENERY.
THE DENSITY THAT'S ENVISIONED
IS IS STATISTICALLY CORRELATED
WITH NUISANCES LIKE GRAFFITI,
VANDALISM AND PETTY THEFT.
THIS IS THIS IS STRONGLY LINKED
TO DENSITY IN IN TERMS
OF EQUITY THERE IS A DESIRE FOR
EQUITY WHETHER IT'S MEASURED BY
RACIAL GROUPS, ETHNIC GROUPS,
INCOME LEVELS ETC. BUT EQUITY
TRUE EQUITY WOULD BE HELPING
PEOPLE TO ATTAIN THE SINGLE
FAMILY WELL AND NOT RELEGATING
THEM TO A APARTMENT OR A CONDO.
WE HAVE IN THE LAST FEW YEARS
JUST COME OUT OF A PANDEMIC.
BUT DURING THE PANDEMIC IT ALSO
BECAME CLEAR THAT PEOPLE WHO
LIVED IN A SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING BASIC HOUSE ON ITS OWN
PIECE OF LAND EXPERIENCE LOWER
COVID INFECTION RATES BECAUSE
THEY HAD A SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING THOSE WHO LIVED IN
APARTMENT BUILDINGS AND CONDOS
AND SO FORTH WERE FOUND TO HAVE
HIGHER INFECTION RATES.
SO THERE IS A PUBLIC HEALTH
DIMENSION TO THIS IN THE
CONTEXT VANOVER NEEDS TO BE
CONSIDERED.
WE LOOK AT OTHER CITIES AROUND
THE NATION AND AROUND THE WORLD
BUT ANN ARBOR HAS THINGS LIKE
LOTS OF ICE AND SNOW AND DAYS
WHERE IT'S FIVE DEGREES EXCEPT
FOR THE WIND CHILL IS NEGATIVE
10 DEGREES AND WHEN YOU LIVE IN
THAT CONTACT THE WORD WALKABLE
MEANS SOMETHING DIFFERENT WHEN
IT'S LITERALLY DANGEROUS TO GO
MORE THAN A FEW BLOCKS OUTDOORS
.
SO THOSE ARE A FEW THOUGHTS IN
CLOSING I'D LIKE TO SAY THAT
THE BEST FORM OF CITY
GOVERNMENT IS WHEN IT
REPRESENTS THE PEOPLE, NOT
MANAGES THE PEOPLE.
>> THANK YOU
.
WELCOME WELCOME.
MY NAME IS CHARLES RHEEM.
I LIVE PACARD.
I'M A CANDIDATE IN THE THIRD
WARD FOR CITY COUNCIL IN 2006.
I CERTAINLY DIDN'T INTEND TO BE
A CANDIDATE BUT THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HAS
MOTIVATED ME TO GET OUT OF MY
RECLINER.
I LOVE ANN ARBOR AZMY FOR THE
TREES AND NOBODY IS GOING TO
WRECK ANN ARBOR WHILE I'M HERE
.
YOU DIDN'T REALLY REVISE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
YOU MADE IT WORSE.
I STUDIED EVERY WORD SO VERY
CAREFULLY WITH ALL THE GLORIOUS
LIBERAL WORDING I CAN'T EVEN
NOW FIGURE OUT WHETHER A SEVEN
STORY APARTMENT BUILDING CAN BE
BUILT NEXT TO MY HOUSE OR NOT.
I THINK SO.
IMPACT YOUR PLAN.
THE PLAN ITSELF COULD BE MADE
BY A SEVENTH GRADER.
IT'S JUST MORE MORE, MORE THOSE
SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE BUT
THE WORDING WRITER NEEDED TO
HAVE THE PH.D. B.S. LIPSTICK
LIPSTICK CAN SAVE THIS PIG.
YOUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
DUPLICITOUS SELL OUT TO BIG
MONEY BOYS MOSTLY FROM CHICAGO.
IT'S AN EXTRACTIVE PLANT
EXTRACT TO PLAN THAT IS NOT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
GREAT CONCERN ABOUT MID LEVEL
HOUSING AND VALUES.
WE ALL KNOW THAT PEOPLE WHO
CLAIM TO BE DRIVEN BY VALUES
ARE THE VERY MOST DANGEROUS
PEOPLE OF ALL BECAUSE THEY
BELIEVE THEY HAVE A RIGHT TO
WIPE OUT THE PAST AND CONTROL
THE FUTURE.
MUCH OF YOUR PLAN IS JUST FINE
JUST GREAT.
ALL OF THIS STUFF THAT COULD
ENABLE NEW HOUSING IS JUST FINE
.
WE CAN HAVE ONE HUNDRED TWO
HUNDRED PERCENT MORE HOUSING.
THAT'S JUST GREAT.
BUT THE PART I WAS WITH VOTERS
WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT THE FIVE
,SIX, SEVEN STORY IS KILLING
THE TREES, RAISING THE TAXES,
TURNING POWER PLANT ON AND ON.
>> IT'S NOT ACCEPTABLE AS MUCH
OF IT IS JUST FINE.
PLENTY TO GIVE ALL THE
MID-LEVEL HOUSING THAT YOU
NEED.
THEN YOU GET INTO THE MONEY,
GRAB THE SEVEN STORIES THAT NEW
TAXES THAT NO INFRASTRUCTURE
FOR THIS WHATSOEVER.
BUT MY CONCERN IS THE TREES
HERE REALLY NEED ALL THESE
WORDS.
THERE'S ONE QUESTION THAT
REALLY MATTERS ARE YOU GOING TO
REDUCE THE BUILDING SETBACKS IN
YOUR NEW RESIDENTIAL AREAS OR
ARE YOU IF YOU REDUCE BACKS IN
RESIDENTIAL ZONING THE TREES IN
ANN ARE GOING TO COME DOWN BIG
TIME FOR AT LEAST TWENTY FIVE
YEARS AS THE CITY GROWS MORE
DENSE, MORE EXPENSIVE AND THERE
WILL BE TOTAL POLITICAL WAR
HERE UNTIL ABOUT THREE KILLERS
OUT OF OFFICE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
HELLO.
>> THANK YOU.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS ERIC
HELLO.
GOLDBERG AND I LIVE IN ABINGTON
>> HELLO MY NAME IS ERIC
THE FIFTH WARD.
GOLDBERG AND I LIVE IN ABINGTON
THANK YOU FOR YOUR HARD WORK ON
THE FIFTH WARD.
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
THANK YOU FOR YOUR HARD WORK ON
PLAN.
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
I'VE BEEN OBSERVING A DEBATE
PLAN.
AND TALKING WITH A LOT
I'VE BEEN OBSERVING A DEBATE
OF PEOPLE ON THE STREET AND IN
AND TALKING WITH A LOT
MY NETWORKS ABOUT THE
OF PEOPLE ON THE STREET AND IN
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
MY NETWORKS ABOUT THE
THIS IS WHAT I'M SEEING MOST
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
PEOPLE I TALK TO YOU WANT
THIS IS WHAT I'M SEEING MOST
SOLUTIONS TO THE CLIMATE CRISIS
PEOPLE I TALK TO YOU WANT
AND THE HOUSING CRISIS WHICH
SOLUTIONS TO THE CLIMATE CRISIS
HAVE BOTH BECOME UNDENIABLE TO
AND THE HOUSING CRISIS WHICH
ANYONE WHO OBSERVES REALITY.
HAVE BOTH BECOME UNDENIABLE TO
BUT THERE'S ALSO A LOUD VOICE
ANYONE WHO OBSERVES REALITY.
FOR THE STATUS QUO WHICH MAY ON
BUT THERE'S ALSO A LOUD VOICE
THE SURFACE ACKNOWLEDGE THE
FOR THE STATUS QUO WHICH MAY ON
HOUSING CRISIS AND CLIMATE
THE SURFACE ACKNOWLEDGE THE
CRISIS BUT DOESN'T WANT TO
HOUSING CRISIS AND CLIMATE
ACTUALLY DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT
CRISIS BUT DOESN'T WANT TO
IF IT MEANS ANY SORT OF CHANGE
ACTUALLY DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT
THE STATUS DOESN'T HAVE IDEAS.
IF IT MEANS ANY SORT OF CHANGE
IT JUST PROTECTS US INTERESTS
THE STATUS DOESN'T HAVE IDEAS.
AND INCREASINGLY RESORTS A
IT JUST PROTECTS US INTERESTS
CONSPIRACY THEORIES AND
AND INCREASINGLY RESORTS A
VITRIOL.
CONSPIRACY THEORIES AND
THE STATUS QUO ANSWER TO LAND
VITRIOL.
USE DEFAULT NO LANDOWNERS AND
THE STATUS QUO ANSWER TO LAND
CHANGE MAKERS HAVE TO JUSTIFY
USE DEFAULT NO LANDOWNERS AND
THEMSELVES AND TIMIDLY EXPLAIN
CHANGE MAKERS HAVE TO JUSTIFY
HOW THEY PLAN TO NOT BE TOO
THEMSELVES AND TIMIDLY EXPLAIN
PROGRESSIVE, HOW THEY PROMISE
HOW THEY PLAN TO NOT BE TOO
TO CONFORM TO THE NINETEEN
PROGRESSIVE, HOW THEY PROMISE
FIFTIES IDEALS AS MUCH AS
TO CONFORM TO THE NINETEEN
POSSIBLE AND HOW THEY'RE SORRY
FIFTIES IDEALS AS MUCH AS
THEY WANT TO USE LAND FOR
POSSIBLE AND HOW THEY'RE SORRY
THINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY
THEY WANT TO USE LAND FOR
HOMES AND STRIP MALLS IN
THINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY
PERPETUITY.
HOMES AND STRIP MALLS IN
THE STATUS HAS HAD ITS CHANCE
PERPETUITY.
AND IT HAS FAILED US A CENTURY
THE STATUS HAS HAD ITS CHANCE
OF EXCLUSIONARY ZONING IS WHAT
AND IT HAS FAILED US A CENTURY
GOT US HERE NOT JUST IN ANN
OF EXCLUSIONARY ZONING IS WHAT
ARBOR BUT ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
GOT US HERE NOT JUST IN ANN
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
ARBOR BUT ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
IS OUR OPPORTUNITY TO OUR LAND,
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
OUR LAND WITH OUR VALUES AND
IS OUR OPPORTUNITY TO OUR LAND,
YES I HAVE VALUES TO ALIGN WITH
OUR LAND WITH OUR VALUES AND
PROGRESSIVE CITIES LIVING IN
YES I HAVE VALUES TO ALIGN WITH
THE 21ST CENTURY.
PROGRESSIVE CITIES LIVING IN
DO WE VALUE EXCLUSIVITY FOR
THE 21ST CENTURY.
PEOPLE OF ALL ECONOMIC, ETHNIC
DO WE VALUE EXCLUSIVITY FOR
AND GENERATIONAL BACKGROUNDS?
PEOPLE OF ALL ECONOMIC, ETHNIC
DO WE VALUE REDUCING
AND GENERATIONAL BACKGROUNDS?
CARBON FOOTPRINT PER CAPITA IS
DO WE VALUE REDUCING
A PERFORMANCE INDICATOR THAT WE
CARBON FOOTPRINT PER CAPITA IS
VALUE REDUCING THE NEED TO
A PERFORMANCE INDICATOR THAT WE
DRIVE AUTOMOBILES FOR BASIC
VALUE REDUCING THE NEED TO
SERVICES AND AMENITIES.
DRIVE AUTOMOBILES FOR BASIC
DO WE WANT TO COMPLAIN ABOUT
SERVICES AND AMENITIES.
TRAFFIC AND SAFETY ARE ACTUALLY
DO WE WANT TO COMPLAIN ABOUT
FIX IT BY ECHOLOCATING WORKERS
TRAFFIC AND SAFETY ARE ACTUALLY
WITH THE CITY THEY WORK AND WE
FIX IT BY ECHOLOCATING WORKERS
WANT TO ONLY DRIVE TO COSTCO
WITH THE CITY THEY WORK AND WE
AND MYER FOR GROCERIES OR WOULD
WANT TO ONLY DRIVE TO COSTCO
IT BE OK IF THERE WAS AN ARGUS
AND MYER FOR GROCERIES OR WOULD
FARM STOP OR JEFFERSON MARKET
IT BE OK IF THERE WAS AN ARGUS
AND THE EMPTY LOT DOWN THE
FARM STOP OR JEFFERSON MARKET
STREET?
AND THE EMPTY LOT DOWN THE
DO WE WANT OUR CHILDREN TO BE
STREET?
ABLE TO WALK TO ICE CREAM OR DO
DO WE WANT OUR CHILDREN TO BE
WE HAVE TO PILE EVERYONE INTO
ABLE TO WALK TO ICE CREAM OR DO
THE CAR AND DRIVE AND PARK?
WE HAVE TO PILE EVERYONE INTO
DO WE SEE THE PEDESTRIAN OR
THE CAR AND DRIVE AND PARK?
BICYCLIST AND THANK THEM FOR
DO WE SEE THE PEDESTRIAN OR
HELPING CURB GREENHOUSE GAS OR
BICYCLIST AND THANK THEM FOR
DO WE CURSE THEM FOR TAKING UP
HELPING CURB GREENHOUSE GAS OR
SPACE WE BELONG WE BELIEVE
DO WE CURSE THEM FOR TAKING UP
BELONGS SOLELY TO CARS.
SPACE WE BELONG WE BELIEVE
I CATEGORIZE MOST COMPREHENSIVE
BELONGS SOLELY TO CARS.
LAND-USE FEEDBACK INTO TWO
I CATEGORIZE MOST COMPREHENSIVE
BUCKETS THE PROGRESSIVE AND
LAND-USE FEEDBACK INTO TWO
REGRESSIVE VOICE.
BUCKETS THE PROGRESSIVE AND
THE PROGRESSIVE POINT OF VIEW
REGRESSIVE VOICE.
IS WE NEED TO CHANGE HOW WE USE
THE PROGRESSIVE POINT OF VIEW
LAND TO MATCH OUR VALUES AND
IS WE NEED TO CHANGE HOW WE USE
TACKLE THE CHALLENGES OF TODAY
LAND TO MATCH OUR VALUES AND
THE REGRESSIVE VOICES SPREADING
TACKLE THE CHALLENGES OF TODAY
FEAR, UNCERTAINTY AND DOUBT
THE REGRESSIVE VOICES SPREADING
CALLING FOR US TO CHANGE
FEAR, UNCERTAINTY AND DOUBT
NOTHING AND KEEP MAKING THE
CALLING FOR US TO CHANGE
SAME MISTAKES THAT GOT US HERE
NOTHING AND KEEP MAKING THE
AND ARBORISTS TIRED OF BEING
SAME MISTAKES THAT GOT US HERE
THE CITY OF NO SORRY THAT'S TOO
AND ARBORISTS TIRED OF BEING
PROGRESSIVE.
THE CITY OF NO SORRY THAT'S TOO
LET'S LEAVE SOLVING THE HOUSING
PROGRESSIVE.
AND CLIMATE CRISES TO
LET'S LEAVE SOLVING THE HOUSING
MINNEAPOLIS OR AUSTIN OR PARIS
AND CLIMATE CRISES TO
.
MINNEAPOLIS OR AUSTIN OR PARIS
WE NEED THE CITY TO BEAT.
.
WE NEED TO BE THE CITY
WE NEED THE CITY TO BEAT.
OF SOLUTIONS.
WE NEED TO BE THE CITY
WE
NEED TO BE THE LEADER.
LET'S HOPE NOT FEAR GUIDE US
AND LET'S DO THE RIGHT THING.
I URGE YOU TO DIRECT STAFF TO
APPROACH HOUSING AND LAND USE
FROM AN ABUNDANCE MINDSET, NOT
FROM A JUSTIFICATION MINDSET.
WE CAN DO THIS.
WE BELIEVE YOU WILL DO THE
RIGHT THING AND WE THANK YOU
FOR IT.
THANK THANK.
HI WELCOME.
THANKS.
I EVEN DO IT IF I GO TO TEACH
SO AS SOMEBODY IN THEIR FORTIES
I KIND OF FALL SOMEWHERE IN THE
MIDDLE ON THIS PLAN.
I'VE COME OUT AND SPOKEN
SOMEWHAT AGAINST IT IN THE PAST
BUT BECAUSE I THINK THAT THERE
JUST NEEDS TO BE THE VOICE FROM
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE RAISING
LEGITIMATE CONCERNS.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THIS
ROOM WHO ARE ARGUING DEPOSIT
PLAN BY THE WAY THAT'S PAUSE
NOT STOP THE PLAN, OK?
BECAUSE THE PLAN IS BECAUSE
THERE ARE LEGITIMATE CONCERNS
AND I DO THINK THAT OUR GROUP
AND THIS GROUP COULD DO A
BETTER JOB OF FORMULATING THOSE
SPECIFIC CONCERNS SO THAT
THEY'RE CLEAR.
BUT WE SHOULD ALSO UNDERSTAND
THAT THE VOICES IN THIS ROOM ON
BOTH SIDES REPRESENT POLLER
EXTREMES.
THE BROADER PUBLIC IN ANN ARBOR
IS PROBABLY MUCH MORE IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE ROAD THAN WE ARE
THOSE OF US WHO BOTHERED TO
COME ALL THE WAY DOWN HERE
TODAY.
THEY NEITHER WANT TO STOP THE
PLAN ENTIRELY NOR DO THEY WANT
TO BUILD THE BEJESUS OUT OF ANN
ARBOR.
THE RESULTS OF THE EXERCISE ON
PAGE THIRTY SEVEN OF THE PLAN
ARE INSTRUCTIVE.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO COMPARE WHAT
PEOPLE SAID THEY WANTED ON PAGE
THIRTY SEVEN WITH THE CURRENT
PLAN ON PAGE ONE OR NINE PEOPLE
PUT DOTS ON KEY AREAS WHERE
INTENSE DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE AND NOT SCREW OVER
EXISTING NEIGHBORHOODS.
THOSE ARE AREAS THAT ARE
WALKABLE, ALLOW FOR EASY ACCESS
TO TRANSPORTATION AND CORE
AMENITIES AND WHICH WOULD STILL
BE AFFORDABLE.
THE CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR KNOW
THEIR CITY TO SAY THAT YOU AS
AN URBAN PLANNER OR THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER KNOW BETTER THAN
THEY DO IS PATERNALISTIC.
IT'S INSTRUCTIVE TO LOOK AT
COMMUNITIES IN WHICH UP ZONING
WAS PRACTICED THIRTY YEARS AGO
AND ASK WHAT THOSE COMMUNITIES
LOOK LIKE TODAY CERTAIN PARTS
OF SAN JOSE WHERE I USED TO
LIVE ARE SIMILAR TO ANN ARBOR
AND HAVE THE SAME KINDS
OF DENSITY THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT IN THIS PLAN AND INDEED
THIRTY YEARS ON CONDOS IN THOSE
AREAS ARE IN FACT TWO THIRDS
THE PRICE OF NEARBY SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES.
BUT THOSE HOMES COST TWO
MILLION DOLLARS AND THE CONDOS
COST ONE POINT FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS.
NEITHER IS AFFORDABLE.
THERE ARE NO MEDICAL
TECHNICIANS OR NEWLY HIRED
TEACHERS BUYING THESE CONDOS
UNLESS THEY'RE MARRIED.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE WORKING IN
THE TECH INDUSTRY DESIRABLE
AREAS ALWAYS THE EXPENSIVE YOU
CAN'T AFFORD TO LIVE IN YOUR
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR TODAY.
YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO LIVE NEAR
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR IN THIRTY
YEARS.
WE SHOULD FOCUS ON BUILDING
HOUSING WHERE WE CAN BUILD A
LOT WHERE WILL ACTUALLY BE
AFFORDABLE AND NICE.
WE'RE NOT REALLY TALKING ABOUT
AREAS OUTSIDE OF ANN ARBOR.
WE DON'T HAVE THE PROBLEM THE
BAY AREA HAS THAT'S HEMMED IN
BY BY BAYS AND OCEANS.
WE CAN EXPAND FURTHER OUT.
WE CAN BUILD IT FROM SCRATCH.
AMAZING NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
EVERY URBAN PLANNER WOULD DREAM
OF AND KEEP WHAT WE HAVE.
PLEASE CONSIDER THAT.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
ME.
MY NAME IS LINDSAY BRIAN
POTVIN.
I LIVE AT FIFTEEN AT ONE
LINWOOD ANN ARBOR ON THE WEST
SIDE OF MICHIGAN.
I'M A LICENSED SOCIAL WORKER,
CERTIFIED FINANCIAL THERAPIST
AND 15 YEAR ANN ARBOR RESIDENT.
ANN ARBOR IS AN INCREDIBLY
SPECIAL TOWN AND ONE OF MY
FAVORITE THINGS IS THAT I CAN
WALK THROUGH MILLER WOODS, GRAB
A COFFEE AT THE CAFE ON THE
STORE AND THEN TAKE MY NIECES
AND NEPHEWS ON THE BUS TO
DOWNTOWN TO ENJOY THE FERRY
DOORS IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR AND
I WOULD WELCOME EVEN MORE
THINGS TO DO ALONG THAT
CORRIDOR INCLUDING SHOPPING
CAFES AND HOUSING AS PROPOSED
IN THAT TRANSITION DISTRICT.
AND THIS TYPE OF EXPERIENCE
SHOULDN'T BE RESERVED FOR JUST
THE LUCKY FEW OF US WHO HAPPEN
TO LAND HERE AT THE RIGHT TIME.
I'M HERE STRONG SUPPORT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
I TALK WITH CLIENTS, FRIENDS,
COLLEAGUES ALL THE TIME ABOUT
WISHING THAT THEY COULD AFFORD
TO LIVE HERE WHO LIVED HERE AND
HAD TO MOVE OUT PEOPLE WHO HAVE
HOMES AND WANT TO DOWNSIZE.
BUT THERE'S NOWHERE TO GO
BECAUSE THERE ISN'T ENOUGH
INVENTORY AND THERE'S UPDATED
PLAN.
IT'S CLEAR TO ME THAT YOU ALL
HAVE LISTENED TO FOLKS HERE AND
MADE ADJUSTMENTS BASED ON
CONCERNS AS I'VE BEEN TALKING
TO DIFFERENT NEIGHBORS, I'VE
BEEN HEARING THREE CONSISTENT
THINGS THAT DRIVE A LOT OF HEAT
AND IT'S CLEAR TO ME THAT THE
PLAN HAS BEEN ADDRESSING THEM.
THE OPPOSITION POINT ONE WE
DON'T WANT TO BECOME MANHATTAN
OR CHICAGO.
GOOD NEWS THIS PLAN DOES NOT
SAY WHERE YOU ARE BECOMING
MANHATTAN OR CHICAGO.
IT BUILDS FOR ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY THOUSAND NOT THREE TO
EIGHT MILLION TO THE RECENT
BUILDS OUR FOUR STUDENTS THEIR
LUXURY DEVELOPMENT THEY ARE
GOING TO HELP WITH HOUSING.
THAT'S NOT TRUE.
THE VACANCY RATE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR IS BELOW THE FIVE TO
EIGHT PERCENT THAT IS NEEDED
FOR HEALTHY AFFORDABILITY.
AND IT'S NOT JUST STUDENTS OR
YOUNG PEOPLE IMPACTED BY THIS.
IT'S OLDER FOLKS TOO.
IT'S REALLY HARD TO DOWNSIZE
AND MOVE INTO A PLACE WHERE YOU
CAN AGENT IN YOUR HOUSE IN ANN
ARBOR BECAUSE THERE IS NOWHERE
ELSE TO MOVE AND THEN FINALLY
IT'S UGLY OR I DON'T LIKE IT.
I LIKE THE TERM WHEN OPPONENTS
TALK ABOUT PRESERVING CHARACTER
I'M OFTEN HEARING THINGS LIKE
THEY'RE PRESERVING EXCLUSION.
THE MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE WHO
CREATED THE PAUSE THE PLAN ARE
OLDER, ARE WHITE AND AREN'T
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DIVERSITY
AGE AND WHERE WE ARE GOING IN
THIS TOWN MANY OF THEM BOUGHT
IN WHEN HOUSING WAS FAR MORE
AFFORDABLE, WHEN LIFE WAS FAR
MORE AFFORDABLE AND CAN'T FULLY
COMPREHEND HOW DIFFICULT IT IS
TO AFFORD A LIFE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
AND THERE'S SO MUCH ENERGY HERE
IN THIS ROOM PEOPLE THAT
CLEARLY CARE ABOUT THIS CITY
AND I JUST THINK OF WHAT A GIFT
IT WOULD BE IF WE COULD ADOPT
THIS PLAN AND CHANNEL THAT
ENERGY TOWARDS SOLVING ACTUAL
PROBLEMS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
HI BAUCOM MY FIRST FIELDS' CAN
YOU HEAR ME OK?
OH WE CAN THANK YOU AND I'VE
LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR ABOUT 30
YEARS.
I DON'T THINK I'VE EVER TALKED
TO A PUBLIC BODY IN THAT TIME
BECAUSE PUBLIC SPEAKING AND
CONFLICT AND NOT REALLY MY
THING I'M SURE A LOT OF YOU
UNDERSTAND I HAD SOME PREPARED
TALKING POINTS BUT HONESTLY I
THINK OTHER PEOPLE ARE COVERING
THEM PRETTY WELL.
I THINK I WOULD LIKE TO SAY IS
THAT WE HAVE I THINK ABOUT
NINETY THOUSAND PEOPLE AT WORK
HERE IN ANN ARBOR, ABOUT FIFTY
THOUSAND PEOPLE THAT STUDY HERE
,ABOUT FIFTY THOUSAND HOMES TO
GO AROUND.
IT'S OBVIOUS THAT THERE'S AN
IMBALANCE AND FIXING THAT
REQUIRES SOME DIFFICULT CHANGE
AND I JUST REALLY APPRECIATE
THE WORK THAT ALL OF YOU HAVE
DONE THINKING ABOUT THAT
PROBLEM AND SHOWING UP TO THESE
MEETINGS.
I COULD NEVER DO IT.
I AND SO THAT'S MAYBE WHAT I
WANT TO SAY IS THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THANK
THANK YOU.
>> HELLO.
WELCOME.
HI THANKS.
MY NAME IS JIM ROGERS AND I'M A
LONGTIME HANOVER RESIDENT.
I LIVE AT THIRTEEN THIRTY TWO
WHITE STREET FIRST I'D LIKE TO
THANK ALL OF YOU FOR YOUR HARD
WORK.
I TRULY APPRECIATE YOUR
DEDICATION TO THIS.
THIS IS NOT EASY.
I'M SPEAKING TONIGHT TO EXPRESS
MY ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I FULLY SUPPORT THE VISION
OF CREATING AN AFFORDABLE,
EQUITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND
DYNAMIC CITY FOR ALL.
I FEEL VERY FORTUNATE TO LIVE
IN A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE TO
CAMPUS AS WELL AS MANY OTHER
BUSINESSES AND SERVICES.
JUST WITHIN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
THERE ARE MARKETS, CAFES,
RESTAURANTS, DENTAL OFFICES AND
CHILD CARE PROBABLY MORE.
I WAS ABLE TO COMMUTE TO WORK
AT THE MEDICAL CENTER YEAR
ROUND BY BICYCLE.
IT'S AMAZING TO BE ABLE TO
ACCESS SO MUCH OF WHAT I NEED
TODAY WITHOUT NEEDING TO DRIVE.
THERE ARE ALSO MANY MULTIUNIT
DWELLINGS IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS,
DUPLEXES, TRIPLE ACCESS AND I
DO NOT FIND THEM AT ALL
OBJECTIONABLE.
I WANT MORE PEOPLE TO BE ABLE
TO LIVE HERE AND ENJOY THE
CONVENIENCE OF NEIGHBORHOODS
LIKE MINE.
ANOTHER REASON I'M VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF ALLOWING
INCREASED DENSITY AND SMALL
COMMERCIAL WITHIN NEIGHBORHOODS
IS BECAUSE IT REDUCES OUR
CARBON EMISSIONS AS OTHER
PEOPLE HAVE SAID.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE MORE
MENTION IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN OF REALLY SETTING GOALS TO
BUILD BUILDINGS THAT HAVE LOW
CARBON EMISSIONS THAT IS LIKE
ALL ELECTRIC AND VERY ENERGY
EFFICIENT.
I KNOW THAT WE AS A CITY CAN'T
REQUIRE THAT TYPE OF YOU KNOW,
THAT'S PART OF THE BUILDING
CODE .
BUT I HOPE THAT YOU CAN INCLUDE
IN THE PLAN, YOU KNOW, STRONG
COMMITMENTS TOWARDS WANTING
BUILDINGS THAT ARE VERY LOW
EMISSIONS.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK
HELLO.
CATHY GRISWOLD THREE FIVE SIX
FIVE BLOCKS DRIVE.
WELL WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON IN
WASHINGTON DC A LOT MUST HAVE
PROBABLY BEEN LOSING SLEEP.
I HEARD SOMETHING FROM SENATOR
SLOTKIN LAST WEEK THAT REALLY
HIT HOME AND THAT WAS THE
GREATEST RISK TO OUR DEMOCRACY
IS OUR SHRINKING MIDDLE CLASS.
THAT'S WHAT SHE ATTRIBUTES LED
TO THE STATE THAT WE'RE IN.
I WON'T GO INTO DETAIL AND THAT
MADE ME THINK WHAT ARE WE DOING
IN ANN ARBOR?
AN EXCELLENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
WILL ADDRESS THE MIDDLE CLASS
AND PROVIDE HOUSING FOR THE
MIDDLE CLASS A SLOPPY, POORLY
IMPLEMENTED COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
WILL MISS THE MIDDLE CLASS AND
ACTUALLY CREATE A SERIOUS
PROBLEM FOR ANN ARBOR AND SO WE
CAN'T HAVE WISHFUL THINKING.
WE CAN'T JUST BE IDEOLOGY
DRIVEN.
AND SO I'D LIKE TO MENTION
THREE THINGS THAT WE CAN DO TO
ADDRESS THE MIDDLE CLASS.
ONE IS BASED ON THE DATA WE
CANNOT BUILD A MIDDLE CLASS
HOUSING FOR LESS THAN MARKET
RATE SO I'M GOING TO TAKE A
LOSS SO MOST PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
IT FOR PROFIT
ARE NOT GOING TO
BUILD HOUSING.
THE ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY LAND
TRUST AND THERE ARE COMMUNITY
LAND TRUSTS THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY THAT IS ONE SOLUTION I
AM A SMALL INVESTOR IN THAT WE
NEED TO LOOK AT THAT WE NEED TO
GET OUR GOVERNMENT FOCUSED ON
THAT.
NUMBER TWO, WHEN I WAS ON
COUNCIL I INTRODUCED A
RESOLUTION THAT PASSED THAT
DIRECTED CITY COUNCIL TO WORK
WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
TO PROVIDE WORKFORCE HOUSING
HOUSING FOR THEIR STAFF MEMBERS
ON NORTH CAMPUS THAT IS
INCLUDED IN THE TWENTY FIFTY
PLAN.
WE NEED TO FOCUS MAKE SURE IT
HAPPENS.
THAT'S ANOTHER EASY LIFT.
NUMBER THREE, WE'VE GOT TO MAKE
SURE THAT OUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS ACCURATE, THAT IT'S
BASED ON FACTS AND THAT WE'RE
SOLVING A PROBLEM WE WANT TO
SOLVE AND NOT CREATING A
PROBLEM WHERE WE ARE SHRINKING
THE MIDDLE CLASS IN THIS
COMMUNITY BECAUSE WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN YOU DO THAT IS YOU HAVE A
VERY POLARIZING DISCUSSION LIKE
WE ARE HAVING TONIGHT.
SOME PEOPLE I THINK ARE
ACTUALLY AFRAID BEING IN THIS
ROOM BECAUSE OF THE TENSION.
WE NEED A STRONG LEADER THAT IS
GOING TO BRING US TOGETHER AND
I HOPE THAT THAT WILL HAPPEN.
AND LASTLY, I'VE BEEN A
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY ADVOCATE FOR
THIRTY YEARS.
AS I ALWAYS SAY, A LOT
OF WISHFUL THINKING WENT INTO
WHAT WE'RE DOING AND AS A
RESULT WE SPENT MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS AND OUR CRASH RATE
KEEPS GOING UP.
HOW CAN WE MANAGE OUR INVENTORY
SO THAT WE ARE NOT EXPERIENCING
MORE CRASHES AS WE BRING MORE
PEOPLE IN AND WE HAVE TO BE
COMMITTED TO GROWING OUR
POPULATION.
>> BUT LET'S DO IT RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS SARAH TUCKER AND
I LIVE IN UNFAIR STREET WHICH
IS OVER BY VIRGINIA PARK.
I LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD WITH A
DIVERSE MIX OF SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCES, DUPLEXES, RENTERS
AND SINGLE FAMILY OWNERS.
I MYSELF HAVE BEEN THE PROPERTY
IN ANN ARBOR SINCE NINETEEN
NINETY EIGHT.
I DID MOVE AWAY TWELVE YEARS
AGO UP TO TRAVERSE CITY WHICH
IS ANOTHER AREA THAT'S
EXPERIENCING A LOT OF THESE
SAME ISSUES AND THEY'RE EVEN
WORSE MADE ME MOVE BACK BECAUSE
I LOVE IT HERE.
I RAISED MY KIDS HERE.
I LOVE THE DIVERSITY.
I LOVE THE UNIVERSITY WHAT
EVERYTHING BRINGS TO TOWN IT'S
A GREAT PLACE TO LIVE BUT I
HAVE TO SAY I HAVE NOTICED A
LOT OF UNBRIDLED DEVELOPMENT
VERSUS THOUGHTFUL DEVELOPMENT
TAKING PLACE THROUGHOUT THE
CITY SINCE I RETURNED.
I'M GOING TO POINT TO THE I
BELIEVE IT'S THE BECKMAN
APARTMENT COMPLEX OVER AND WALL
STREET AND PLEASE FORGIVE ME
I'M TRYING TO REMEMBER NAMES
OF STREETS AGAIN.
IT'S A HUGE APARTMENT COMPLEX.
THERE IS NO RETAIL ANYWHERE ON
THE BOTTOM OF THAT PARTICULAR
PROPERTY AND DEVELOPMENT LIKE
THAT REALLY CONCERNS ME.
I DON'T KNOW IF I'M PROGRESSIVE
OR REGRESSIVE.
I HAVEN'T FULLY EXAMINED THE
PLAN BUT I WANT TO GIVE MY
THOUGHT TO A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE THING I'M CONCERNED ABOUT
WITH THE ELIMINATION
OF POSSIBLY ONE IN OUR TWO
ZONING AND JUST GOING TOWARDS
OUR FOUR ZONING IS THAT
POTENTIAL DEVELOPERS MAY COME
IN AND TRY TO OUTBID FAMILIES
WHO ARE TRYING TO SECURE
HOUSING BECAUSE THEY SEE THEY
HAVE THEIR EYES ON DEVELOPING
FOURPLEX IS DUPLEXES, CONDOS,
ET CETERA THAT COULD BE VERY
LUCRATIVE VERSUS ALLOWING
SINGLE FAMILIES TO GO IN AND
BUY HOMES FOR THEMSELVES.
I'M ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT THE
STIPULATIONS IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE'S A LOT GREAT DUPLEXES,
MULTI LEVEL HOMES BUT HAVING
TOWERING FOUR PLEXUS NEXT TO
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND
DUPLEXES IS SOMETHING THAT
CONCERNS ME.
I'M ALSO I HAVE TO SAY THIS
THERE IS AN ABUNDANCE OF AIRBNB
PROPERTIES THROUGH OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS, OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT KIND
OF CONTROLS WE HAVE IN OUR CITY
BUT ALLOWING INVESTORS TO COME
IN AND BUY HOMES JUST FOR THE
PURPOSE OF DOING SHORT TERM
RENTALS ALSO IMPACTS OUR
HOUSING STOCK AND I THINK
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT NEEDS TO
BE ADDRESSED.
AND LASTLY, I'M GOING TO SAY
SOMETHING THAT'S PROBABLY I'M
POPULAR AND MAYBE NOT
APPROPRIATE.
BUT THE OTHER THING IS WE HAVE
A UNIVERSITY HERE THAT IS
GRABBING A LOT OF LAND AND
COULD BE USED FOR OTHER
PURPOSES.
THANK YOU.
THANK QUALCOMM.
>> WELL, HI, I'M ADAM 618 SOUTH
MAIN STREET AND THE REASON I
LOOK A LITTLE FUNNY TODAY WITH
MY SHORT SHORTS AND MY POLO AND
MY NECK GATOR WAS BECAUSE I WAS
A BIKE FROM WORK.
I LIVE DOWNTOWN.
I WORK SLIGHTLY OUTSIDE TOWN
AND I'M ABLE TO LIVE MOST OF MY
LIFE CAR FREE.
THANKS TO ANN ARBOR ACTUALLY
ABOUT TO HIT FIFTEEN HUNDRED
MILES ON MY BIKE IN ANN ARBOR
JUST FOR THE LAST SEVEN MONTHS
AND I WAS HERE SO ON TO SHOW MY
SUPPORT FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN OVERALL DENSIFYING ANN
ARBOR AND MINIMALIZING ARE ONE
ZONING BASICALLY I WANT OTHER
PEOPLE TO HAVE THAT OPTION
OF CHOOSING A LIFE LIKE MINE
AND I WOULD DEFINITELY LIKE MY
LIFE TO BE CHEAPER AND WITH
MORE OPTIONS INSIDE THE CITY
WHEN PEOPLE COME TO MICHIGAN OR
WHEN PEOPLE IN MICHIGAN WANT TO
MOVE TO A CITY, OFTEN THEY LOOK
AT ANN ARBOR AND WE NEED TO
BUILD FOR IT AND I'VE SPOKEN TO
A LOT OF THOSE PEOPLE AND THEY
THINK IT'S HILARIOUS TO ANN
ARBOR RENTS ARE COMPARABLE WITH
CHICAGO AND NEW YORK AT LEAST
THEY WOULD THINK IT WAS FUNNY
IF THEY WEREN'T THE ONES PAYING
THEM.
YES.
AND I ALSO WANT TO ADD THAT THE
ONLY REASON ALL OF THESE BIG
BAD DEVELOPERS CAN MAKE SO MUCH
MONEY COMING IN HERE AND
BUILDING HIGH RISES IS BECAUSE
OF THE UNBELIEVABLY HIGH DEMAND
FOR HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
THE ONLY OTHER OPTION I SEE IS
LETTING HIGH HOUSING PRICES
CONTINUE TO EXPLODE JUST
BECAUSE WE CAN'T HAVE HOUSING
PRICES OVERNIGHT OR IN A DECADE
DOESN'T MEAN WE SHOULD DO
NOTHING.
AND CONTRARY TO BELIEF IN THE
ROOM, MORE SUPPLY DOES IN FACT
MAKE PRICES GO DOWN OR AT LEAST
PREVENTS THEM FROM GETTING AS
HIGH AS FAST WITH THEIR MIND.
PLEASE MAXIMIZE HOUSING CHOICE
THROUGH THE PLAN, ALLOW
FLEXIBILITY IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICTS TO ALLOW THEM TO GROW
OVER TIME AND PRIORITIZE
COMMUNITY OVER THE CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND JUST MY LAST POINT HERE I
WOULD LIKE TO REMIND EVERYONE
WHAT THE HOUSING CRISIS LOOKS
LIKE.
IT'S A BUNCH OF WELL-MEANING
INDIVIDUALS BLOCKING
DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH.
IT'S DESPERATELY NEEDED.
PLEASE LOOK AROUND AND SEE WHAT
THE RESISTANCE IN THE ROOM
REPRESENTS MORE HOUSING
SHORTAGES, RISING PRICES AND A
CONTINUED HOUSING CRISIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HI HELLO.
I'M ALAN HOUCK FROM THE FOURTH
WARD.
I WAS ON A NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING
FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN A
FEW DAYS AGO AND LISTENING TO
THE PEOPLE THERE I NOTICED A
FEW THINGS.
MANY PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE LATIN DICKIN
HAVE RELATIVELY HIGH INCOMES
AND USE THOSE INCOMES TO BUY
LARGE HOUSES ON LARGE LOTS.
MANY OF THEM SEEM TO THINK THAT
IF YOU ARE ABLE TO AFFORD A
HOUSE WITH A HUGE SQUARE
FOOTAGE THAT IS THE ONLY THING
THAT YOU ARE GOING TO BUY JUST
LIKE THEY DID.
BUT THERE ARE PEOPLE WITH THE
SAME MANY WITH THE SAME
RESOURCES WHO ALSO WANT TO LIVE
IN NICE AND RESPECTABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS WHO CANNOT MANAGE
OR SIMPLY DO NOT WANT TO MANAGE
A HOUSE LIKE THAT.
THERE MIGHT BE SOMEONE WHO IS
NOT PHYSICALLY CAPABLE OF YARD
WORK LIKE MOWING THE LAWN OR
SHOVELING SNOW OR THEY JUST
DON'T WANT TO EXPEND THE EFFORT
TO DO IT.
THEY MIGHT NOT WANT GIANT HOUSE
BECAUSE THEY AREN'T ABLE TO
TAKE CARE OF ALL THE INDOOR
HOUSE WORK THAT GOES INTO A
LARGE HOUSE OR THEY JUST AREN'T
INTERESTED IN KEEPING TRACK
OF ALL OF IT OR THEY MAY BE
USING THE HOUSING ON
ECOLOGICALLY CONSCIOUS SPACES
BUILDING A DUPLEXES SIZE AS THE
AVERAGE HOUSE AND LAWN USES PER
HOUSEHOLD.
IF YOU'RE A BUILDING MATERIALS
LIKE WOOD AND CONCRETE AND
ATMOSPHERIC GREENHOUSE GASES
SIMILARLY, A DUPLEX UNIT
REQUIRES FEWER RESOURCES LIKE
ENERGY AND WATER TO HEAT COOL
AND MAINTAIN ENSURING THAT THE
HOUSEHOLD ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT
IS KEPT LOW AS A PREVIOUS
SPEAKER SO ELOQUENTLY STATED
THIS PLAN AS A WAY TO HELP THE
YOUNG PEOPLE OF THE CITY THE
ONES WHO WILL INHERIT IT CHANGE
THEIR BUILT A NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT FOR THE BETTER.
I'M A NINETEEN YEAR OLD WHO HAS
LIVED MY ENTIRE LIFE ANN.
I AM CURRENTLY GOING TO THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND I
HOPE THAT EVENTUALLY I CAN
CONTINUE TO LIVE HERE AFTER I
GRADUATE AND I WANT LIKE I AND
THE GENERATION WHO IS GOING TO
LIVE HERE IN THE FUTURE AND I
WANT A CITY THAT REPRESENTS MY
VALUES AND WILL ENSURE THE
WORLD THAT I AM GOING TO LIVE
IN IS STILL ONE THAT I WANT TO
LIVE IN.
HOPEFULLY SOMEONE ELSE AT ONE
OF THESE MEETINGS HAS MORE TIME
TO EXPLAIN WHY WE SHOULDN'T
JUST TELL PEOPLE TO GO LIVE IN
THE TOWNSHIP, BUILD SOMETHING
SOMEWHERE THAT'S NOT NEAR ME OR
GO FIND A DIFFERENT CITY IF
THEY DON'T LIKE ANN ARBOR THE
WAY IT IS, THERE'S ALSO
PROBABLY SOMEONE WHO CAN
EXPLAIN WHY MORE HOUSING
OF DIFFERENT TYPES IS NECESSARY
FOR ALLOWING PEOPLE OF ALL
INCOME LEVELS TO LIVE
COMFORTABLY IN ANN ARBOR AS
WELL AS THE DRAWBACKS
OF SEGREGATION.
MANY PEOPLE WANT TO LIVE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE LOTEN WITH
NICE PARKS, GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD
SCHOOLS AND MOSTLY KIND
OF RESPECTFUL NEIGHBORS.
I PERSONALLY WOULD LIKE TO LIVE
IN A PLACE LIKE NEAR PEOPLE
WITH A VARIETY OF PHYSICAL
ABILITIES AGES, JOBS AND VALUES
WHICH IS NOT POSSIBLE WHEN WE
ONLY BUILD ONE TYPE OF HOUSING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO, WELCOME.
MY NAME IS BRENDAN ROO'S.
I LIVE AT ONE TWENTY SEVEN
FIELD CREST STREET APARTMENT
TWO OR THREE AND I AM HERE IN
SUPPORT OF THE NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
OF BUILDING MORE HOUSING IN ANN
ARBOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO TALK TODAY
ABOUT THE DAY TO DAY REALITIES
OF RENTING IN THIS CITY SO THAT
THE VOICE OF THE RENTER
MAJORITY THE RENTER MAJORITY IS
NOT LOST IN THIS DISCUSSION.
THOSE OF US MOST AFFECTED BY
THIS PLAN ARE NOT AS VOCAL AT
THESE MEETINGS BUT WE ARE
NONETHELESS MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMUNITY AND WE DESERVE TO BE
ABLE TO LIVE WITH DIGNITY.
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS
I'VE NAVIGATED THE RENTAL
MARKET BOTH AS A STUDENT AND
ZAITOUNEH AND FOR ANYONE WHO
HASN'T HAD TO DO SO RECENTLY I
CAN SAY WITH CONFIDENCE THAT NO
MATTER HOW BAD YOU THINK IT IS,
IT IS SO SO
MUCH WORSE.
I WOULD INVITE ANYONE OPPOSED
TO NEW HOUSING IN THIS CITY TO
LOOK UP SALARIES FOR TEACHERS,
NURSES OR REALLY ANY ENTRY
LEVEL CAREER THEN GO ON AROUND
TO WEBSITES AND LOOK AT HOUSING
OPTIONS WITHIN A REASONABLE
BUDGET.
SPOILER ALERT YOU WILL NOT FIND
MUCH.
THE RENTAL MARKET TODAY ISN'T
JUST EXPENSIVE IT'S
EXPLOITATIVE AND IN MANY CASES
IT IS DOWNRIGHT UNSAFE.
AND EXAMPLE, TALK TO STUDENTS
AND I CAN GUARANTEE YOU THAT
YOU WILL FIND SOME WHO HAVE
LIVED WITH SERIOUS UNADDRESSED
PROBLEMS SUCH AS BLACK MOLD IF
YOU ARE THE LANDLORD THAT ONE
OF THOSE HOUSES THERE'S NO
INCENTIVE FOR YOU TO FIX IT
BECAUSE AT THE END OF THE DAY
THERE ARE SO FEW HOUSING
OPTIONS AVAILABLE THAT SOMEBODY
IS GOING TO RENT YOUR PLACE.
THIS APPLIES TO ALL KINDS
OF PROBLEMS.
I KNOW PEOPLE WHO HAVE LIVED
WITH COCKROACH INFECTION
INFESTATIONS, MAJOR LEAKS,
BROKEN COOKING APPLIANCES,
BROKEN HEATERS IN THE DEAD OF
WINTER.
NONE OF THESE WERE EVER
MEANINGFULLY ADDRESSED BY THE
PROPERTY OWNER FOR THE HOUSING
MARKET TO FUNCTION AS A MARKET
THERE NEEDS TO BE A LEGITIMATE
VACANCY THREAT.
YOU NEED TO BE ABLE TO TELL
LANDLORDS IF YOU DON'T FIX
THIS, NOBODY WILL RENT FROM
YOU.
THAT THREAT DOES NOT EXIST HERE
BECAUSE WE ARTIFICIALLY LIMIT
OUR HOUSING AND I KNOW PEOPLE
ARE TIRED ABOUT SEEING THE NEW
HIGH RISES ALL THE TIME EVEN ON
A LITTLE BIT TIRED OF SEEING
HIGH RISES ALL THE TIME.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS DOWNTOWN
HIGH RISES ARE ESSENTIALLY THE
ONLY FORM OF DENSITY THAT'S
LEGAL RIGHT NOW.
THE BEAUTY OF THIS PLAN IS THAT
IT MEETS THE DEMAND FOR SORELY
NEEDED MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING
FOR ME IT RISES ALONG MAJOR
CORRIDORS AND NEIGHBORHOOD
SCALE DENSITY OTHER PLACES TO
ADDRESS A COMMENT SOMEONE MADE
EARLIER I PERSONALLY DON'T NEED
TO LIVE IN A SINGLE FAMILY
HOME.
I WOULD BE HAPPY TO OWN A
TRIPLEX TOWNHOME ANY OTHER KIND
OF MULTIFAMILY DWELLING.
I JUST WANT TO BE ABLE TO OWN A
HOME IN THIS CITY SOMEDAY LET'S
MAKE THOSE OTHER KINDS OF HOMES
LEGAL.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE ALSO ARGUED
THAT THIS PLAN IS A SELL OUT TO
DEVELOPERS BUT THE OPPOSITE IS
TRUE.
MAINTAINING THE STATUS QUO IS A
SELL TO INCUMBENT LANDLORDS WHO
USE THEIR MARKET POWER TO
EXPLOIT BULLY AND INTIMIDATE
PEOPLE WHO JUST WANT A PLACE TO
LIVE.
THE REALITY IS BEYOND THE SCARE
TACTICS AND THE DISHONESTY, THE
OPPOSITION TO THIS PLAN IS
ROOTED IN DENIAL, DENIAL
OF ECONOMICS, DENIAL OF OUR
CITY'S VALUES AND DENIAL OF THE
SAME OPPORTUNITIES.
MANY OF THESE RESIDENTS HAPPILY
TOOK ADVANTAGE OF DECADES AGO.
THE CRISIS IS URGENT SO LET'S
NOT ALLOW A VOCAL MINORITY
OF RESIDENTS TO WATER THIS
THING DOWN.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
ANN ARBOR.
MY NAME IS CHARLES OK I'M IN
THE FOURTH WARD NINETEEN TWENTY
WOODBURY DRIVE TONIGHT I WANT
TO SPEAK TO THE MAJORITY OF THE
RESIDENTS WHO ARE ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE ISSUE WHO VOTED FOR
COMILLA HARRISON THE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR ELECTION ABOUT THE
CONSEQUENCES OF INACTION ON THE
HOUSING CRISIS AND BOY DO WE
HAVE ONE NOT ONLY IN
OCTOBER BUT ACROSS BLUE AMERICA
AND DEMOCRATIC RUN CITIES AND
STATES SHORTLY AFTER TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR ELECTION THE
ATLANTIC REPORTED THE NUMBER
ONE REASON PEOPLE ARE LEAVING
BLUE CITIES AND STATES LIKE
OURS IS BECAUSE OF THE HIGH
COST OF HOUSING.
CITING CENSUS DATA AND BUBAR
SURVEYS, THE DEMOCRATS, LIKE
MANY IN ANN ARBOR, CLAIM TO BE
THE PARTY THAT SUPPORTS WORKING
PEOPLE.
BUT IN PRACTICE WE'RE EXCLUDED
FROM THE BLUE CITIES LIKE OURS
THAT HAVE THE MOST OPPORTUNITY
SO EVERYBODY GOING THERE GOING
TO TEXAS, FLORIDA, TENNESSEE
THE CAROLINAS RED STATES THEY
MIGHT BE BANNING BOOKS BUT
WE'RE BEING HOUSING THEY BILLED
AS A RESPONSE TO ME AND THEY
REMAIN MORE AFFORDABLE AS A
RESULT.
RED AMERICA UNFORTUNATELY
REALIZES THAT AMERICANS WANT TO
BUILD THEIR LIVES WHERE
OPPORTUNITY AND AFFORDABILITY
MEAN AND AMERICANS APPLAUD THE
POLITICAL PARTY IN POWER THAT
THEY BELIEVE WILL MAKE THEM
RICH DESPITE EVIDENCE TO THE
CONTRARY.
RIGHT NOW PEOPLE SEE BLUE
AMERICA AND ANN ARBOR HAD
ENDLESS ARGUMENTS OVER
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER DOING
NOTHING.
VACANCY RATES REMAIN
DANGEROUSLY LOW AND RENTS AND
HOME PRICES SKYROCKET.
THIS HAS BROAD IMPLICATIONS THE
TWENTY THIRTY CENSUS PROJECTS
RED STATES WILL GAIN HOUSE
SEATS.
THOSE ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES
WHILE BLUE STATES WILL LOSE
THEM MAKING THE TWENTY THIRTY
TO TWENTY THIRTY SIX AND TWENTY
FOURTEEN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS
MORE DAUNTING FOR DEMOCRATS
CLOSELY DIVIDED MICHIGAN OUR
ACTION OR INACTION IN ANN ARBOR
COULD VERY WELL BE THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN US GOING RED
OR BLUE CITIES LIKE ANN ARBOR
THAT ARE GETTING POLITICAL
POWER AWAY TO DONALD BY NOT
BUILDING WE TALK A BIG GAME
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY I AND THE
WORKING CLASS WHITES ALL LONG
SCIENCE AND NO LEGWORK AND THEN
WE'RE SHOCKED THAT SAME WORKING
CLASS PUTS TRUMP IN THE WHITE
HOUSE NOT ONCE BUT TWICE
BECAUSE AT LEAST HE SAYS I SEE
YOU BUT SHOULD WE BE SO
SURPRISED IF YOU'RE SHORT
OF HIGH OPPORTUNITY DEMOCRATIC
CITIES LIKE OURS IF YOU FEEL
TALK DOWN TO AND PRICED OUT,
WHY WOULD YOU TRUST THE PARTY
WHO RUNS THOSE CITIES WITH THE
PRESIDENCY?
SO LET'S BE IN ANN ARBOR WANT
TO PRACTICE SAYING THINGS LIKE
PRESIDENT JD VANCE OR PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP JR.
WE BETTER GET OUR ACT TOGETHER
ON HOUSING THAT MEANS ACTION.
DANSVILLE ON TRANSIT CORRIDORS
RE LEGALIZING COLLEGE COURTS
LIKE BRAUN AND MARSHALL
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY
WALKABLE HOUSING DOWNTOWN AND
IN DC ZONES MORE AFFORDABLE
UNITS.
WE ARE ONE OF THE KIND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILEAGE AND
YES MORE OPTIONS FOR HOMEBUYERS
IN THE FORM OF SEPARATELY DATED
MULTIPLEX'S AND TOWNHOMES AND
CURRENTLY SINGLE FAMILY HOME
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT THE
UNANIMOUS MANDATE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ALLOWING
MORE HOMES ALL KINDS THROUGHOUT
THE CITY FOR A BETTER ANN ARBOR
AND AS A MODEL FOR A BETTER
AMERICA.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO MR. GOLDMAN BLUE ADAM
GOODMAN FOUR VIRGINIA AVENUE.
SO INSTEAD OF GIVING SPECIFIC
FEEDBACK TONIGHT LIKE I HAVE
BEFORE, I'M GOING TO TELL MORE
OF A PERSONAL STORY I'VE IN ANN
ARBOR FOR A BIT OVER TWENTY
YEARS IN ONE THING I'VE
REALIZED WHAT I WAS THINKING
ABOUT IT.
I HAVE NEVER LIVED IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT DID NOT HAVE
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING IN IT YOU
KNOW, FIRST TIME IN DORMS BUT
BEFORE MY CURRENT RESIDENCE I
SPENT EIGHT YEARS RENTING ON A
BLOCK THAT HAD A NON CONFORMING
FOURPLEX.
IT WAS FINE IT WAS NOT GOOD FOR
ME BECAUSE TO SAY WE SHOULD
LEGALIZE THIS IN MY CURRENT
HOUSE I LIVED DOWN THE STREET
FROM A BIG COMPLEX FULL
OF DUPLEXES AND YOU KNOW, I
DON'T THINK IT WAS A CONSCIOUS
CHOICE OF MINE THAT I WANTED TO
LIVE NEXT TO A BUNCH
OF DUPLEXES.
BUT NOW WHEN I THINK ABOUT IT
ACTUALLY YES I DO I THINK THAT
THESE NEIGHBORHOODS WITH MIXED
HOUSING TYPES ARE THE BEST
BANABA.
AND YOU KNOW, IF YOU ACTUALLY
LOOK AT PROPERTY VALUES I THINK
I'M NOT THE ONLY ONE WHO THINKS
THIS.
>> THEY'RE OFTEN VERY DESIRABLE
.
SO ONE OF THE REASONS THAT I'VE
COME TO THINK THIS WAY IS
UNFORTUNATELY OVER THE LAST
COUPLE OF YEARS I'VE HAD A FEW
FRIENDS GO THROUGH DIVORCES AND
THEY SOLD THE HOUSE NEEDED TO
FIND A PLACE TO LAND AND IT
HAPPENED IT JUST SO HAPPENED
THE TWO OF THEM COMPLETELY
SEPARATE INSTANCES ENDED UP
FINDING A APARTMENT AND A
DUPLEX TO RENT THAT WAS NEAR
ME.
YOU BAD CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> BUT YOU KNOW, I THOUGHT THIS
WAS A REALLY NICE THING AND
AGAIN IT WASN'T BECAUSE THERE
WAS ANY INTENTION THERE I
DIDN'T SAY HEY, YOU SHOULD COME
HANG OUT WITH ME.
IT WAS BECAUSE I CHOSE TO LIVE
IN A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT HAD A
VARIETY OF HOUSING OPTIONS AND
WHEN PEOPLE NEEDED WHEN PEOPLE
WENT THROUGH A BIG DIFFICULT
CHANGE IN THEIR LIVES AND
NEEDED A HOUSING OPTION THAT
LOOKED DIFFERENT FROM BEFORE,
THAT'S WHERE THEY WERE.
AND SO WE'VE HEARD PEOPLE SAY
THAT ADDING ALLOWING MULTIPLE
UNIT DEVELOPMENTS IN EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOODS WILL DESTROY
THESE NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING IS THE
ONLY APPROPRIATE FORM
OF HOUSING FOR FAMILIES AND I
HAVE TO SAY, YOU KNOW, NOT ONLY
IS THIS DEEPLY OFFENSIVE TO
EVERYONE WHO LIVES IN ALL
OF THESE DIFFERENT TYPES
OF HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR, IT'S
ALSO JUST PLAIN WRONG ADDING
MORE DIVERSITY OF HOUSING
OPTIONS TO OUR NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE'LL MAKE THEM WILL STRENGTHEN
THEM.
WE'LL MAKE THEM MORE RESILIENT
BECAUSE AS PEOPLE GO THROUGH
DIFFERENT PHASES OF THEIR LIVES
AND LIFE CHANGING EVENTS, THEN
THEY CAN STAY IN THE COMMUNITY
THAT THEY HAVE TIES TO AT A
TIME WHEN THOSE TIMES ARE WHEN
THEY MAY NEED TO LEAN ON THEM
THE MOST.
SO YOU KNOW, I SAY THIS
BASICALLY JUST TO SAY I DEEPLY,
STRONGLY SUPPORT THE VISION
OF ANN ARBOR FOR ALL THAT YOU
ALL ARE PURSUING THE PLAN AND I
THANK YOU FOR ALL THE WORK
YOU'VE DONE.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
LCOME.
GOOD EVENING.
COMMISSION KURT WESTFALL THIRTY
FIVE OF FIVE CHARTER PLACED ON
SUBSTANTIVE NOTE I JUST WANT TO
REITERATE MY HOPE THAT NO
CURRENT THREE IN OUR FOUR
PARCELS WILL BE DOWN ZONED TO
LOW RISE.
THESE ARE RELATIVELY
NON-CONTROVERSIAL EITHER WAY OR
PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED LARGER
COMMUNITIES THAT WE DON'T NEED
TO CONSTRAIN.
BERRY GARDENS IS ONE EXAMPLE
THEY HAVE TO TAPER DOWN TO THE
SURROUNDING AREAS SO I HOPE
THAT YOU WILL TAKE A STANCE
OF ABUNDANCE.
I'M LOOKING AT CURRENT
MULTIFAMILY PROPERTIES BUT I
WANTED MORE TO SPEND TIME ON
THE WORRISOME REFRAIN I HEAR
ABOUT THAT.
YOU KNOW WE DON'T HAVE LOCAL
NEWS ANYMORE AS SOMEONE WHO HAS
BEEN FOLLOWING US FOR CLOSE TO
20 YEARS AS SOME OF THE PEOPLE
IN THE AUDIENCE HAVE WE KNOW
THAT AND LIVE AND OUR NEWS HAS
BEEN REPORTING ON THE COMP PLAN
FOR OVER TWO YEARS.
I JUST GOT A QUESTION TODAY, AN
EMAIL THAT SAID HI KIRK.
I WAS TALKING TO SOMEONE THIS
MORNING WHO WAS AGAINST THE NEW
ZONING PLAN STILL NOT A ZONING
PLAN.
ONE THING THEY SAID WAS THAT
THEY BELIEVE THE GOLF COURSES
ARE GOING TO BE ZONED AND
LIKELY TO BE DEVELOPED AND NOT
USED AS PARKLAND.
DO YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT HOW
THOSE PARCELS OF LAND ARE ZONED
IN THE NEW PLAN UNQUOTE?
I JUST WANT TO CAUTION FOLKS
PLEASE BE SKEPTICAL ABOUT
NEWSLETTER'S THAT LAND IN YOUR
EMAIL BOX OR FLIERS WITH
UNTRUTHS THAT ARE DESIGNED TO
STOKE FEAR.
>> YOU KNOW, PEOPLE WHO WANT TO
SOLVE THE HOUSING SHORTAGE HAVE
SEEN THIS PLAY OUT IN CITY
AFTER CITY
.
IT'S MUCH, MUCH EASIER TO SOW
FEAR AND DOUBT THAN IT IS TO
SUPPORT LONG TERM CHANGE.
WE'VE TRAINED PROFESSIONALS WHO
HAVE DATA THAT SHOW OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE IS FINE.
WATER IS WATER USE IS DOWN 15
PERCENT FROM ITS PEAK A DECADE
AGO.
THESE ARE NOT REAL IMMEDIATE
SHORT TERM CONCERNS AND WE'RE
NOT GOING TO BE STUCK WITH
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT'S
OVERBURDENED.
IF ANYTHING, IT HELPS BUILD NEW
AND IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE AND
FOR ANYONE OUT THERE WHO IS NEW
TO THIS OR JUST LOOKING FOR
INFORMATION OR WANT TO GIVE
INPUT, IT'S OBVIOUSLY STILL
HAPPENING.
I DON'T SEE HOW YOU CAN PAUSE A
CONVERSATION THAT IS ONGOING
PARTICIPATE, ASK QUESTIONS AND
BUT MOST OF ALL JUST BE HONEST
ABOUT YOUR POSITION INSTEAD
OF ATTACKING THE PROCESS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR WORK.
THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
COMMISSION AND CITY STAFF.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME TONIGHT
AND THE MANY MONTHS OF WORK
THAT YOU'VE BEEN PUTTING INTO
THIS.
MY NAME SARA BASSIOUNY PRONOUN
SHE ANY I CURRENTLY LIVE AT ONE
THREE NINE ACTUALLY MEANS DRY
WITH MY SPOUSE AND I PREVIOUSLY
RENTED IN ANN ARBOR I DO A
PREVIOUS COMMENTER I HAVE IN
FACT LIVED IN A HOUSE THAT HAD
BLACK MOLD AND THE CUT OFF
AFTER AN ICE STORM.
IT WAS NOT GREAT.
I SPEAK TONIGHT IN SUPPORT
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN AND I ECHO MANY OF THE
COMMENTERS I'VE SPOKEN BEFORE
ME IN SUPPORT.
I'VE BEEN SPEAKING WITH FOLKS
ABOUT THE PLAN AND MANY ARE IN
SUPPORT AND FOR THOSE WHO ARE
UNSURE OF IT OR WHO ARE AGAINST
IT, I EXTEND MY HAND TO TO YOU
TO WALK WITH US.
I FIND CHANGE SCARY TOO.
BUT CHANGE IS INEVITABLE.
WE DO NOT LIVE IN A STATIC
WORLD JUST SO WE CAN CHOOSE TO
ADAPT OR WE CAN CHOOSE TO WATCH
THE SLOW DEATH OF SOMETHING WE
ALL CARE ABOUT.
CHANGE CAN BE REALLY SCARY BUT
I FOUND IT A LOT LESS SCARY
WHEN DONE IN COMMUNITY THROUGH
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
WE COLLECTIVELY HAVE THIS
FABULOUS SHINING OPPORTUNITY TO
DEFINE A FORM OF CHANGE THAT
MANY PEOPLE ARE EXCITED ABOUT
THAT INCLUDES MYSELF, CURRENT
RESIDENTS, PEOPLE WHO WANT TO
LIVE HERE LIKE OUR TEACHERS,
OUR NURSES, OUR SANITATION
WORKERS WHO COMMUTE IN EVERY
DAY AND AS WELL AS PEOPLE LIKE
MY FUTURE CHILDREN.
WE GET A CHANCE TO DEFINE A
TYPE OF CHANGE THAT WILL BEGIN
THE WORK OF ACTIVELY REPAIRING
THE INTENTIONAL HARMS AND
DAMAGE OF ZONING LAWS AND
RACIAL COVENANTS THAT HAVE BEEN
WELL DOCUMENTED.
THIS IS A TYPE OF CHANGE THAT
WILL ALLOW US TO BUILD IN ANN
HARBOR THAT IS A WELCOMING,
SUSTAINABLE AND FORWARD LOOKING
PLACE AND I THINK ISN'T THAT
FUNDAMENTALLY WHAT WE ALL WANT?
AND SO IF YOU'RE AFRAID WHAT
CHANGE CAN LOOK LIKE, PLEASE
COME TALK TO ME, BREAK BREAD
WITH ME AND LET'S CONNECT ON A
HUMAN LEVEL INSTEAD OF SHOOTING
ARROWS OF MISINFORMATION OR
FEAR, CHANGE CAN BE SCARY BUT
TO PARAPHRASE THE GREAT JOHN
LEWIS TOGETHER LET'S MAKE GOOD
CHANGE NECESSARY CHANGE TO THE
COMMISSION PLEASE.
I BEG YOU MAINTAIN A HOUSING
ABUNDANT FRAMEWORK AND DO NOT
RESTRICT THIS PLAN
PREEMPTIVELY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> HELLO.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
PLANNING COMMISSION.
GOOD EVENING TO ALL OF MY
NEIGHBORS WHO ARE HERE TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS GREG MATTHEWS
OF TOIVO EIGHT BROOKLYN AVENUE
IN THE FOURTH WARD AND I'M A
RESIDENT WHO CARES VERY DEEPLY
ABOUT THE FUTURE OF THE CITY AS
I'M SURE EVERYONE HERE DOES
BECAUSE THIS CITY IS WHERE MY
KIDS ARE GROWING UP AND THEY
MAY SOMEDAY CHOOSE TO LIVE AS
ADULTS.
IT'S ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT TO ME
AND MY KIDS ALSO MADE ME
PROMISE I'D SAY HI SO HI KIDS.
I'M HERE TO DISCUSS THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THIS PLAN
AND INTRODUCE EVERYONE TO
NEIGHBORS FROM OUR NEIGHBORS TO
A RAPIDLY GROWING GRASSROOTS
ORGANIZATION.
WE ARE A GROUP OF RESIDENTS
DEMONSTRATING OUR COLLECTIVE
COMMITMENT TO A MORE
SUSTAINABLE, EQUITABLE AND
AFFORDABLE FUTURE FOR ANN ARBOR
.
EVERYTHING THAT WE DO COMES
FROM THE CREATIVITY AND
GENEROSITY OF OUR VOLUNTEERS.
WE HAVE NO FUNDING FROM ANY
OTHER ORGANIZATION.
WE ADVOCATE FOR THOUGHTFUL
GROWTH THAT KEEPS OUR VIBRANT
WELCOMING FOR EVERYONE.
DISCOVERIES OF LAND USE PLAN IS
VITAL TO ADDRESSING OUR
COMMUNITIES MOST PRESSING ISSUE
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY.
WE SUPPORT ITS DIRECTION
BECAUSE IT WILL CREATE MORE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR PEOPLE OF ALL
BACKGROUNDS AND ALL INCOME
LEVELS TO LIVE HERE.
IT WILL BUILD ON OUR
COMMUNITIES STRONG SUPPORT FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, LEVERAGING
OUR VILLAGE AND CITY OWNED LAND
FOR THAT PURPOSE AND THIS PLAN
WILL BEGIN TO ADDRESS AND
ARBOR'S WOEFUL ECONOMIC
SEGREGATION.
WE BELIEVE THAT WHEN MORE OF US
CAN AFFORD TO CALL IN OUR HOME
OUR CITY WILL BE EVEN MORE
VIBRANT AND YES, EVEN MORE
FUNKY LIKE IT USED TO BE BACK
IN THE DAY.
SO SINCE LAUNCHING MORE
NEIGHBORS TO A VERY SHORT TIME
AGO, WE'VE SEEN INCREDIBLE
MOMENTUM.
WE HAVE MORE THAN 600 RESIDENTS
HAVE ALREADY SIGNED OUR
PETITION EVEN THOUGH WE JUST
GOT OUR WEBSITE UP.
WE HAD MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED
YARD SIGNS POPPED UP ALL OVER
THE CITY PROUDLY DISPLAYED AND
WE HAVE MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED
VOLUNTEERS WHO ARE ACTIVELY
ENGAGED ON THIS ISSUE BECAUSE
THEY WANT TO SEE CHANGE.
SIX ORGANIZATIONS HAVE ALREADY
ENDORSED US AND WE'VE BARELY
STARTED ASKING THE WASHINGTON
HOUSING ALLIANCE, THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S
LECTURERS UNION, THE BICYCLE
ALLIANCE OF WASHINGTON AND
WASHINGTON CLIMATE REALITY AND
AVALON HOUSING.
ALL OF THESE NUMBERS I JUST
TOLD YOU ARE GROWING.
THEY'RE GOING TO CONTINUE
GROWING.
WE HAVE BROAD SUPPORT AND IT
HIGHLIGHTS A SHARED
UNDERSTANDING.
MORE NEIGHBORS ARE GOOD FOR OUR
WORKFORCE, OUR CLIMATE GOALS.
THEY STOPPED THE LOSS
OF DIVERSITY THAT WE HAVE BEEN
EXPERIENCING FOR YEARS AND THEY
HELP OUR NONPROFITS WHO WORK TO
END HOMELESSNESS AND THEY HELP
ALL OF US WHO PAY TAXES TO
DISTRIBUTE THE COSTS OF CITY
SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO I'LL JUST WRAP UP BY SAYING
I REMEMBER AT ONE POINT IN THIS
VERY LONG PROCESS THAT SOMEBODY
ASKED SKEPTICALLY WHO IS THIS
FOR?
THEY WERE WORRIED WE KNOW MORE
NEIGHBORS.
THEY TOO THAT THIS WORK IS FOR
ALL OF US IS FOR EVERYBODY IN
THIS ROOM.
SO LET'S DO THIS TOGETHER.
WE INVITE ALL OF YOU TO PLEASE
JOIN US, CHECK OUT YOUR
NEIGHBORS AT TUBORG.
THANK YOU.
HI.
GREG MONROE.
TWELVE SIXTY ONE PENDING ROAD.
I'M SPEAKING SPECIFICALLY IN
OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED
TRANSITION DISTRICT ADJACENT TO
AAGOT PARK AND NATURE AREA
DIRECTLY EAST OF THE RIVER.
I AM REQUESTING THAT THE PLAN
DESIGNATE THIS AREA AS A
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
LAST MONTH CITY COUNCIL ADOPTED
A RESOLUTION BASED ON THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION'S
RECOMMENDATION THAT DIRECTS THE
CITY TO IDENTIFY AND PROTECT
OUR NATURAL FEATURES AS IT
PLANS FOR GROWTH ON BOTH PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE LAND.
AAGOT AND THE SURROUNDING AREA
IS PREDOMINANTLY COMPRISED
OF THESE FEATURES.
THE RESOLUTION ACKNOWLEDGES
THESE NATURAL FEATURES DON'T
JUST PROTECT WATER AIR QUALITY
AND REDUCE STORM HAZARD.
THEY ALSO PRESERVE SCENIC AREAS
WITH NATURAL BEAUTY FROM THE
PUBLIC TO ENJOY THAT FARGO IS
ONE OF THE FEW PLACES IN THE
CITY WHERE RESIDENTS CAN ACCESS
IMMERSIVE NATURE.
YEAR-ROUND IS VERY IMPORTANT.
IT'S A PLACE TO DECOMPRESS AND
TO RECONNECT WITH NATURE AND
DOESN'T COST A THING.
STUDIES HAVE LINKED EXPERIENCE
AND NATURE WITH IMPROVED MENTAL
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING AS WE
CONSIDER INCREASED POPULATION
DENSITY FOR OUR CITY, ACCESS TO
RESTORATIVE NATURE IS ESSENTIAL
ALLOWING A TRANSITION DISTRICT
WHICH PERMITS COMMERCIAL FLIGHT
INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING
USES BORDERING AAGOT AND THE
SURROUNDING NATURAL AREA
CONTRADICTS THE VALUES
EXPRESSED IN THE CITY'S
RESOLUTION AND THREATENS THE
PUBLIC'S ABILITY TO FULLY ENJOY
THE SPACE.
THE AREA THAT IS MOST
TRANSITION DISTRICT IN QUESTION
IS MADE UP OF APARTMENTS AND
TOWNHOMES.
IT ALREADY MEETS THE GENTLE
DENSITY CRITERIA FOR NEW
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
IT ALSO FEATURES NATURALLY
OCCURRING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WHICH THE PLAN STATES IT SHOULD
PROTECT.
THEREFORE I RESPECTFULLY URGE
TO REZONE THIS AS RESIDENTIAL
AND THEN I ALSO WANT TO FOLLOW
UP ON MY WRITTEN COMMENTS
BECAUSE I CONNECTED A COUPLE
OF DOTS AFTER SUBMITTING THOSE
COMMENTS REFERENCED THE RIVER
NORTH A NEW DEVELOPMENT WHICH
I'VE SPOKE ON IN PREVIOUS
MEETINGS WHICH IS BEING BUILT
ON RESIDENTIAL ZONING.
IT STILL IS RESULTING IN THE
CLEAR CUTTING OF CLOSE TO AN
ACRE OF MATURE WOODLAND AND IT
IS EXCAVATING HUNDREDS OF FEET
OF FRONTAGE OF STEEP AREAS
IDENTIFIED IN THE CITY'S
NATURAL FEATURES INVENTORY AND
PROTECTED ON THE PROTECTED
UNDER THE CITY COUNCIL'S RECENT
RESOLUTION.
MY CONCERN IS THAT IF THE LEVEL
OF DAMAGE HAS OCCURRED UNDER
RESIDENTIAL ZONING ALLOWING
TRANSITION ZONING WITH EVEN
BROADER USES AND ENCOURAGING
EVEN GREATER TRAFFIC TO THE
AREA POSES AN EVEN GREATER
THREAT TO ARRIGO'S NATURAL
QUARTER.
BUT THIS IS ALSO TWOFOLD FOR MY
PROPONENTS FOR GROWTH AND
DEVELOPMENT THOUGH DAMAGING TO
THE NATURAL AREA I'M ADVOCATING
TO PROTECT FROM INTENSE
DEVELOPMENT REFERRED NORTH TO
ALSO ILLUSTRATES THAT FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH IS
POSSIBLE WITHIN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
SO AGAIN THE CITY COUNCIL'S
RESOLUTION CALLS FOR PROTECTING
HIGH VALUE NATURAL FEATURES.
THE AREA ALREADY SUPPORTS
GENTIL DENSITY AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND SHOULD BE
DESIGNATED RESIDENTIAL TO
PRESERVE ALL THREE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU.
HI.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU ALL.
JEFFREY NINETEEN FORTY TWO
BOULDER DRIVE WENT TO NURSERY
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY SCHOOL,
JUNIOR HIGH HIGH SCHOOL AND
COLLEGE IN THIS TOWN.
I VERY MUCH LOVE THIS TOWN.
I WANT TO SEE THE BEST FOR THIS
TOWN.
I'M ALSO A MEMBER OF THE
GREATER METROPOLITAN
ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS WHICH
REPRESENTS HUNDREDS AND
HUNDREDS OF AMBASSADORS TO THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
WE SPEND DAY IN DAY OUT TALKING
ABOUT HOUSING, ZONING,
AFFORDABILITY, LAND USE.
WE ARE THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
ENCOURAGED PEOPLE TO COME TO
THIS TOWN.
WE'RE ALSO A VERY LARGE
ORGANIZATION THAT WAS NEVER
REACHED OUT BY THIS GROUP TO
GET OUR OPINION, TO GET OUR
THOUGHTS, TO GET OUR IDEAS
BECAUSE DAY IN AND DAY OUT
WE'RE GETTING ADDRESSED WITH
THOSE QUESTIONS RIGHT NOW WE'RE
GETTING ADDRESSED BY PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO BUY HERE.
WE WANT TO MOVE HERE AND ARE
UNSURE ABOUT WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN TO THIS TOWN.
SO I'M HERE FOR TWO REASONS I
WANT TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO
INCREASE YOUR OUTREACH TO
ENGAGE OUR GROUP.
WE ARE HERE, ENGAGE US.
DON'T WAIT FOR US TO FIND OUT
WHERE YOUR NEXT MEETING AT A
LIBRARY IS GOING TO BE BECAUSE
WE HAVE A VERY STRONG VOICE AND
WE HAVE VERY GOOD IDEAS ON THIS
.
THE SECOND THING THAT I WOULD
LIKE TO SAY IS SOMEBODY WHO'S
ATTENDED
A LOT OF PLANNING
MEETINGS DOWNTOWN FOR NEW
DEVELOPMENTS.
WHAT WHAT I THINK IS MISSING
FOR A LOT OF THOSE DEVELOPERS
IS THE FACT THAT THEY COME IN
AND THEY DEVELOP AND THEY SELL
AND THEY MOVE ON.
>> YEAH, WE ARE THE ONES WHO
STICK AROUND.
WE'RE THE ONES WHO ARE STILL
HERE.
OUR FRIEND SAID TO ME ONE TIME
YOUR PRODUCT SHOULD ATTEMPT TO
DELIVER ON YOUR BRAND PROMISE
AND I SAY TO YOU ALL DO YOU
KNOW WHAT ANNABELLE'S BRAND
PROMISES BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING
TO LOSE THE VISION AND THE
THING THAT WE LIKE MOST ABOUT
THIS CITY IF YOU JUST KEEP
BRINGING IN DEVELOPERS WHO ARE
ONLY HERE TO GET A PROFIT AT
THE END OF THE DAY AND MOVE ON
TO THE NEXT TOWN.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO, MY NAME IS JOHN GODFREY.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO TALK WITH I
JUST WANT TO SAY THAT WE DIDN'T
HAVE TO BE HERE IN THIS WAY
TODAY IN THE STATE WE'RE IN
THIS IS AS A TOWN, AS A CITY,
AS A COMMUNITY AND I THINK IT'S
DREADFULLY UNFORTUNATE BUT I
THINK THERE ARE REASONS THAT WE
ARE HERE TODAY IN THIS MANNER.
MANY OF US ARE SEEING POSTCARDS
FILTERING INTO OUR MAILBOXES
ABOUT THE PROPOSALS A AND B FOR
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
YET WE NEVER RECEIVED ANY
NOTICE ABOUT A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROCESS THAT BEGAN ABOUT
NOT QUITE TWO YEARS AGO.
IT DIDN'T HAVE TO BE THIS WAY.
THERE ARE OTHER MODELS FOR
HAVING DONE THIS IN A BETTER
WAY THAT ENGAGED THE COMMUNITY
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING AND
TALKED WITH PEOPLE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS TO ASSUAGE
ANXIETIES TO BRING TOGETHER A
COMMON SET OF INTEREST AS A
CITY PROBLEMS THAT WE NEED TO
TACKLE COLLECTIVELY AND HOW WE
CAN COME TOGETHER TO MOBILIZE
OUR KNOWLEDGE AND OUR
CAPACITIES AS COMMITTED
RESIDENTS OF THIS CITY TO
REALLY MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
BUT WE DIDN'T DO THAT.
INSTEAD WHAT WE HAVE IS THE
MOST FAR REACHING CHANGE
PROPOSED IN OUR HISTORY THAT IS
COMES IN TOP DOWN AND THAT SOME
PEOPLE I THINK I UNDERSTAND I
SEE A PREDETERMINED SET
OF OUTCOMES AND WE WHERE WE ARE
TODAY IS WE'RE HEARING STRAWMAN
ARGUMENTS BEING LIFTED UP.
WE'RE HEARING CARICATURES
OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE VIEWS
DIFFERENT FROM OUR OWN AND
USING THEM TO THOSE CARICATURES
TO DISMISS THEM.
OH THEY ONLY ONE SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSES.
OH THOSE PEOPLE ARE OLD AND
WHITE.
WHAT COULD THEY YOU KNOW THEY
ARE NOT THE FUTURE I AM THE
FUTURE.
THEY ARE NOT THE FUTURE.
NOTHING IS MORE CORROSIVE AND
DESTRUCTIVE TO A COLLECTIVE
CITY'S SPIRIT AS CLAIMS LIKE
THAT.
BUT THOSE CLAIMS HAVE COME
ABOUT BECAUSE OF WHAT HAPPENED
AT THE VERY BEGINNING OF THIS
PLAN AND NEGLECT TO MAKE SURE
PEOPLE WERE INVOLVED AND HAD A
ROBUST VOICE AND YOU ARE
ACCOUNTABLE AND THE CITY
COUNCIL IS ACCOUNTABLE AND THE
MAYOR OF THIS CITY IS
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THAT
FUNDAMENTAL MISTAKE WHICH HAS
DONE A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF DAMAGE TO THE INTEGRITY AND
COLLECTIVE SPIRIT OF THIS CITY.
WE KNOW THAT VULNERABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD WILL BE
GENTRIFIED.
WE DO KNOW THAT WHAT CAN WE DO
TO REMEDY THAT?
WHAT CAN WE DO TO PREVENT THAT
IN THE PLANNING PROCESS?
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT QUESTION.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
GOODWILL CAN COME TOGETHER TO
SOLVE THAT TERRIBLE RENT
STRUCTURE IN THIS TOWN THAT IT
WAS CORRECTLY IDENTIFIES
PAUPERIZED AS STUDENTS PEOPLE
CAN AFFORD TO LIVE HERE.
>> WHAT CAN WE DO COLLECTIVELY
TO SOLVE THAT?
BUT WE WERE NOT CONVENED FOR
THAT PURPOSE.
WE WERE DISMISSED AND THIS
WASHED OVER OUR HEADS
UNANNOUNCED.
WE STILL HAVE MEETINGS TODAY
WHERE TWO THIRDS OF THE PEOPLE
IN THE ROOM HAVE NOT HEARD
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS
RECENTLY AS THREE WEEKS AGO.
THAT IS ASTONISHING AND
UNFORGIVABLE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
HELLO, HELLO.
>> HI, I AM STACY HARPER AND I
RESIDE ON CROSLAND IN ANN ARBOR
AND I KIND OF HAVE A QUESTION
FOR EVERYBODY REALLY EVERYBODY
IN THIS ROOM AND THOSE OF YOU
LISTENING AND WATCHING AT HOME
I JUST WANT TO KNOW IS ANYBODY
LISTENING?
>> IS ANYBODY ACTUALLY
LISTENING BECAUSE I'M HEARING
NEIGHBORS FOR NEIGHBORS AND I
THINK OF WHAT SOME THINGS ARE
SAYING.
I'M LIKE YUP YUP YUP CHECKED MY
BOX.
THAT'S GREAT.
AND I HEAR POSITIVE PLAN AND
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
AND EVERYBODY HERE IN THIS ROOM
IS HERE BECAUSE WE GIVE A RIP
ABOUT ANN ARBOR.
WE LOVE THIS CITY.
WE LOVE WHAT IT IS AND WE WANT
TO BE CAREFUL ABOUT WHAT IT
BECOMES.
THE POTTED PLAN FOLKS PAUSE AND
STOP ARE TWO VERY DIFFERENT
WORDS.
IT DOES NOT MEAN STOP.
IT DOES NOT MEAN NOT THAT GO
FORWARD.
I THINK I'M HEARING A LOT FROM
THAT THING.
I KNOW I'M HEARING A LOT
OF OVERLAP BETWEEN TWO OPPOSING
SIDES.
WE ALL WANT AFFORDABILITY.
WE ALL WANT REVERSIBILITY.
WE ALL WANT PEOPLE TO BE HAPPY.
WE WANT WONDERFUL NEIGHBORHOODS
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS
AT RISK.
THERE'S A DATA AND THE DATA IS
THE KEY.
JUST BECAUSE YOU WANT SOMETHING
TO BE TRUE DOES NOT MAKE SO I
THINK WE ALL OUGHT TO KNOW THAT
BY NOW WE NEED TO LOOK AT THE
DATA.
WE NEED TO TAKE A PAUSE.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
DATA IS DOING WHAT WE WANT
BECAUSE WHAT IF YOU'RE WRONG?
WHAT IF YOU'RE WRONG?
WHAT IF ACTUALLY THERE'S NO
AFFORDABILITY, THERE'S NO
MIDDLE CLASS ALL OF THE FEARS
HERE WHAT IF THOSE COME TRUE?
IS IT WORTH THE RISK?
CAN'T WE JUST SLOW DOWN AND
WORK TOGETHER AND GET ON THE
SAME PAGE BECAUSE WE ALL KIND
OF WANT THE SAME THING SO LET'S
PLEASE JUST DO IT RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HI WELCOME.
>> HELLO I'M HERE.
HOW LAVIE VISSEL AND I ALSO WAS
BORN AND RAISED HERE IN ANN
ARBOR WENT THROUGH HIGH SCHOOL
COLLEGE AND HAVE JUST RETIRED
AS A TEACHER IN THE COMMUNITY
AND I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF US
HERE IN YES I AM OLDER, I AM
WHITE BUT I HAVE ROOTS ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF ANN ARBOR RIGHT
OFF AAGOT, RIGHT OFF A SWIFT
STREET FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT
DON'T KNOW.
THAT'S RIGHT.
I PONTIAC TRAIL AND LONG SHORE
AND THAT LAND HAS BEEN IN OUR
FAMILY FOR OVER ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY YEARS AND MY CONCERN IS
THAT PROPERTY IS NOW IT IS
PROJECTED TO BE ZONED
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING WHICH I
MEAN LET'S BE HONEST THE RIVER
IS PRIME REAL ESTATE AND I'M
SURE FOR ALL OF THE SUITS HERE
THEY'RE THINKING THEIR WHEELS
ARE MOVING, ARE MOVING BUT THE
PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN HERE FOR
OVER ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
YEARS WE DON'T WANT THAT
CONTINUAL 10 STOREY HIGH RISE
APPROACH TO RIVER TO TO THE
LOWER TOWN AREA ALONG THE RIVER
WHERE I'M PART THE THE PAUSE
THE PLAN AND THAT IS WE'RE NOT
SAYING STOP IT GET MORE INPUT
FROM THE CITIZENS THAT HAVE
BEEN PAYING TAXES FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS, NOT THE RESIDENTS
THAT YOU KNOW THE THE NEW
INDIVIDUALS THAT HAVE COME IN.
I APPRECIATE WHAT THEY WANT OUT
OF OUT OF THE COMMUNITY.
I WANT TO BE HEARD I WANT TO
HAVE A VOICE SINCE WE HAVE DEEP
SEATED ROOTS IN THIS COMMUNITY
AND IT'S NOT ABOUT BEING WHITE
.
I'VE SEEN WHAT'S HAPPENED TO MY
COMMUNITY.
I WAS I WENT THROUGH MY SIDE
SCHOOLS AND AND CLAG IN HERE IN
HIGH SCHOOL.
I KNOW WHAT WHAT POTENTIALLY
COULD HAPPEN TO OUR COMMUNITIES
AND I KNOW WHAT'S HAPPENED IN
THE PAST TO OUR COMMUNITIES.
I JUST WANT A VOICE.
I JUST WANT TO BE HEARD.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
HI MY NAME IS PATRICIA HACKNEY.
I'M IN WARD ONE IS THE WARD ONE
REP HERE.
OH LIZA OH I THOUGHT IT WAS
CYNTHIA.
OH OK.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S WHERE I WAS CONFUSED.
OK A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE MADE A
LOT OF GOOD POINTS HERE TONIGHT
THE DIRTY LITTLE SECRET IS THAT
DEVELOPERS CAN'T AFFORD FOR
THEM TO BUILD AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THEY CAN'T MAKE MONEY ON IT.
THAT'S WHAT THE OTHER LADY
SAID.
SO WE'RE IN A CONUNDRUM.
YOU KNOW, THEY THEY WANT THE
BIG HIGH RISES BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT THEY MAKE THE MONEY AND A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF THEM FINE.
ME PERSONALLY I'M NOT
COMFORTABLE WITH THIS ONLY
BECAUSE THE DEVIL'S IN THE
DETAILS AND I DON'T FEEL LIKE I
HAVE ANYWHERE NEAR THE
INFORMATION.
I CAN'T GET A DEFINITION
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THEY BEAT
AROUND THE BUSH BECAUSE THIS
WHOLE THING THE TWO THINGS I'M
HEARING TONIGHT ARE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICTS.
SO I THINK THAT NEEDS TO BE
EXPLORED MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AFFORDABLE FOR YOU.
I MEAN OUR POPULATION IS HAS
GONE DOWN SIX PERCENT SO
THEY'RE BUILDING THE STUFF
THAT'S CONFUSING TO ME.
I MEAN I'M I'M FOR IT IS ABOUT
THE FUTURE.
I LIKE A LOT OF THINGS AND THE
CHANGES THAT THEY'VE DONE.
BUT IN TERMS OF THIS PLAN, IT
IS IT IS VERY FAR REACHING AND
I FEEL LIKE I HAVE LIKE A TENTH
OF THE INFORMATION I NEED TO
TRULY UNDERSTAND WHAT'S GOING
ON.
SO AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS THE
BIGGEST I NEED TO KNOW.
FIFTY PERCENT OF THE NEW
HOUSING WILL BE AFFORDABLE THAT
TARGETED AND INCOMES BETWEEN
FORTY FIVE TO SEVENTY FIVE
THOUSAND OR WHATEVER FOR A
TEACHER OR YEAH THAT'S
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND I DON'T
SEE THAT I SEE MULTI MILLION
DOLLAR MILLION CONDOS
AND
THAT'S GREAT.
I MEAN THERE'S NOTHING WRONG
WITH THAT.
I'M JUST SAYING I DON'T WE
DON'T HAVE THE DEFINITION WE
JUST DON'T WE DON'T HAVE THE
DETAILS.
THE DEVIL'S IN THE DETAILS.
GIVE US MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THAT'S WHAT I HEAR FROM BOTH
SIDES AND AFFORDABLE FOR YOU
AND I'D LOVE TO SEE, YOU KNOW,
MORE AFFORDABLE AND MORE PEOPLE
AND THAT'S THE THING I SAID HOW
MANY PEOPLE ARE THEY?
BECAUSE THE FIRST PLAN SAID
THIRTY THREE THOUSAND UNITS.
WHAT'S A UNIT THIRTY THREE
THOUSAND EVEN IF WE DOUBLE THE
POPULATION THAT'S THE OTHER
THING HOW HOW MUCH POPULATION
MORE DO YOU WANT TO SEE AND
WHICH IS FINE.
I JUST WANT TO KNOW I JUST FEEL
LIKE I DON'T HAVE ANYWHERE NEAR
THE INFORMATION AND THE DETAIL
.
>> EXCUSE ME.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU.
HELLO WELCOME.
HI HELLO.
MY NAME IS ELEANOR JONES.
I HAVE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR MOST
OF MY SIXTY TWO YEARS ON THIS
EARTH THE LAST THIRTY YEARS A
HOMEOWNER AT THIRTEEN NINETEEN
OLIVIA I LOVE THIS CITY I CARE
ABOUT IT DEEPLY.
I THINK THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN IS AN OPPORTUNITY WE
CAN PLAN TO MAKE IT NO BETTER
NOT JUST MORE POPULOUS.
THE DRAFT PLAN PROPOSES RADICAL
DENSIFICATION.
I CALL IT EVERYTHING EVERYWHERE
ALL AT ONCE AT THE EXPENSE
OF QUALITY OF LIFE.
THIS APPROACH WILL RUIN OUR
CITY.
ADDING DENSITY DOES NOT NEED TO
COME AT THE EXPENSE OF QUALITY
OF LIFE.
WE CAN AND SHOULD MAINTAIN
CURRENT BUILDING STANDARDS SUCH
SETBACKS OR WE CAN ADJUST THEM
TO ACTUALLY IMPROVE THIS CITY
FOR EXAMPLE, INCREASE OPEN
SPACE, PLANT MORE TREES.
RIGHT NOW THE PLAN IS IT'S
WORDED IS JUST A GIVEAWAY TO
DEVELOPERS AND ALLOWS THEM TO
RUN ROUGHSHOD OVER FEATURES
THAT MAKE IT OVER A NICE PLACE
TO LIVE.
THE PLAN SHOULD PROTECT AND
PROMOTE DESIRED FEATURES, NOT
INCREASE CROWDING BY REDUCING
THAT BECS AROUND HOUSING AND
BUSINESSES NOT INCREASE THE
HEAT ISLAND EFFECT BY ALLOWING
MORE HOT ROOFS AND IMPERMEABLE
SURFACES NOT REDUCE THE AMOUNT
OF GREEN SPACE BUT RATHER IN
CENTERPIECES BEAUTIFUL HUMAN
SCALE ARCHITECTURE THINGS LIKE
FRONT PORCHES THAT MAKE TRULY
LIVABLE NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE PLAN I'M SORRY THE PLAN
SHOULD PROTECT AND EVEN IMPROVE
OUR ENVIRONMENT BUT IT DOES
NOT.
THE PLAN SHOULD REFLECT THE
PUBLIC'S WISHES BY REQUIRING OR
AT LEAST INCENTIVIZING
DEVELOPERS TO DO MORE TO
IMPROVE OUR ENVIRONMENT, NOT
JUST DEGRADE IT LESS.
WE SHOULD ENCOURAGE DEVELOPERS
TO BUILD RAIN GARDENS GREEN
ROOFS, PROVIDE SPACE TO PARK
BIKES AND CHARGE EAVES AND
OTHER SIMILAR MEASURES.
IN PARTICULAR WE NEED TO
PROTECT OUR MATURE TREES.
THEY ARE IRREPLACEABLE.
DON'T LET DEVELOPERS SACRIFICE
THEM IN THEIR PURSUIT OF PROFIT
ABOVE ALL ELSE.
ALLOWING THAT DESTRUCTION HARMS
EVERYONE IN THE CITY FOR
DECADES IF NOT CENTURIES TO
COME.
THANKS TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION YOU NOW HAVE ALL THE
WORDING YOU NEED TO PROPERLY
ADDRESS THE ENVIRONMENT THROUGH
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I ASK
THAT YOU PLEASE INCORPORATE THE
RESOLUTION PASSED BY CITY
COUNCIL JUNE 16TH INTO THE PLAN
.
IT'S GOING TO BE VERY EASY TO
LOOK AT WHAT PEOPLE WANT WHEN
THEY MOVE HERE STREETS WITH
SIDEWALKS AND MATURE TREES, THE
VIBRANT DOWNTOWN A CITY RICH
AND EDUCATION ARTS NOTABLE
ARCHITECTURE, ABUNDANT PARKS
AND GREEN SPACES LIKE THESE ARE
A WIDE VARIETY OF LOCAL
BUSINESSES.
PEOPLE WANT A CITY THAT CARES
ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT.
NOBODY MOVES HERE BECAUSE THEY
WANT TO LIVE IN AN ANONYMOUS
SKYSCRAPER.
OH REALLY CROWDED SIDEWALKS AND
STREETS.
THEY MOVE HERE FOR THE SMALLER,
MORE WELCOMING SCALE OF A SMALL
CITY WITH MANY OF THE MANY
OF THESE KIND OF LARGER CITIES
.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
MY NAME MY NAME IS CALLED IS
VINCENT.
I LIVE IN FIVE FOUR OR FIVE S
FIFTH AVENUE FORESE DISTRICT.
SO YOU HAVE SEEN ME MANY TIMES
HERE AND BECAUSE MY WORD IS
THAT EVERY DAY ACROSS THE
STREET THE 14 STORY OR HIGHER
BUILDING GOES.
SO I WOULD BE HAPPY IF JUST
QUADRUPLETS WOULD GO UP.
BUT THIS IS JUST AN EXAMPLE FOR
HOW INTENSE THE DEVELOPING
PRESSURE IS IN DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWN AND IT IS DO YOU HAVE
DEVELOPERS EVERY DAY IF THEY
FAIL TO DO THAT THE NEXT ONE
COMES IN WITH A DIFFERENT
PROJECT.
SO SO I WAS ACTUALLY VERY
ENCOURAGED WITH WITH THE PLAN.
IT WAS PROPOSED TWO YEARS AGO
BY NOW AND SO THIS IS A CHANCE
SOMETHING NEW CAN ACTUALLY
HAPPEN AND AND SO AND SO I
FOLLOWED DEVELOPMENTS AND SO
FOR PEOPLE AFTER THREE YEARS TO
COME UP THAT THEY HAVEN'T HEARD
OF IT, THAT'S JUST
DISINGENUOUS.
THEY WERE NOT INTERESTED IN
WHICH DIRECTION THE CITY WAS
GOING UNTIL THEIR OWN
NEIGHBORHOODS WERE ON THE
CHOPPING BLOCK AND ONLY THEN
DID THE RISE AND PROTEST.
AND SO I AM ONE THING THAT HAS
NOT BEEN TALKED ABOUT IS THAT I
SAW IN THE REVISED PLAN THAT
NOW THE ADD ONE DISTRICT IS
OWNED FOR THREE STORIES AND
NOTHING HIGHER THAN THREE
STORIES THREE TO ADD ONE
DISTRICT THAT ENCOMPASSES THE
BULK OF THE BUILD THE AREA AND
BUT IF YOU MAKE SUCH A HARD
LIMIT YOU BASICALLY ELIMINATE
THE ABILITY OF THIS THE PEOPLE
WHO WORK IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN TO ACCOMMODATE SEVENTY
THOUSAND PEOPLE THEY DON'T HAVE
NOTHING TO WORK WITH WHAT IS
LEFT IS DOWNTOWN A LITTLE BIT
TRANSIT ZONING DISTRICTS AND
OF COURSE SEVENTY THOUSAND
PEOPLE ENTERED INTO THAT AREA.
IT WILL LOOK LIKE S UNIVERSITY
AND AND MORE SO SO I WOULD SAY
PLEASE DO NOT DO ZONING OR
REVISE PLANS THAT EXCLUSION
REALLY EVERYBODY HAS TO SHARE
THE BURDEN OF DEVELOPING AND
LIVABLE AND DIVERSE CITY
BECAUSE THESE DEVELOPMENTS THAT
ARE GOING UP THESE HIGH RISES,
THEY ARE NOT DIVERSE.
THEY ARE SILOS THAT STUDENTS.
SO WE DON'T NEED MORE OF THOSE.
WE NEED DIVERSE HOUSING
EVERYWHERE IN THE CITY
INCLUDING IN ONE DISTRICT AND
ANYTHING THAT PROTECTS OUR ONE
DISTRICT IS DISINGENUOUS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO.
HELLO CHARLENE.
>> PLANNING COMMISSION CAN OVER
TWENTY EIGHT HUNDRED HOME COURT
.
I'M IMPRESSED WITH YOUR STAMINA
AND YOUR COMMITMENT.
I KNOW THIS HAS BEEN A LONG
HAUL AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
YOUR WORK ON IT.
I REFER YOU TO MY COMMUNICATION
FOR MY SPECIFIC SUGGESTIONS
REGARDING SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
PLAN.
JUST WANT TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
IN GENERAL ABOUT MY VIEW WHICH
IS A BIT CONTRARIAN.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
PREVIOUS COMMENTS FROM THE
SUSPECTS AND JENNY ROGERS.
THEY'RE ABSOLUTELY CORRECT THAT
MORE HOUSING AND HIGHER DENSITY
WILL LEAD TO REDUCED VEHICLE
USE, REDUCED EMISSIONS FROM
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES,
REDUCED COMMUTERS.
ALL THIS WILL BE PEOPLE BENEFIT
THE CLIMATE BUT FROM A
QUANTITATIVE POINT OF VIEW AND
I'VE DONE THE NUMBERS THESE
BENEFITS ARE FALLS FAR SHORT
OF THE HARM THAT'S BEING DONE
BY THE KIND OF BUILDINGS THAT
WE'RE PROVING.
I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT ACROSS
THE STREET THE MARRIOTT HOTEL
THAT'S GOING THERE ARE COMMON
SPACES WILL BE HEATED WITH GAS
LATER TONIGHT.
THIS COMMISSION WILL CONSIDER
OR RATHER RECONSIDER A LARGE
COMMERCIAL THE DEVELOPMENT BY
BRIARWOOD WHICH WILL BE IT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS WOULD BE GAS
HEATED.
I REJECT THE NOTION THAT
THERE'S NOTHING WE CAN DO ABOUT
IT BECAUSE STATE BUILDING CODES
PRECLUDE THE CITY RESTRICTING
IN ANY WAY THE RIGHT TO USE
FOSSIL FUELS AND NEW
CONSTRUCTION REFER TO MY
GETTING MY LETTER FOR SEVERAL I
THINK USEFUL SUGGESTIONS THINGS
WE CAN DO SO WITHOUT GOING INTO
THAT I DON'T HAVE TIME.
I KNOW THAT I DON'T THINK THIS
PLAN IS READY FROM THE
SUSTAINABLE BELOTTI POINT
OF VIEW TO GO TO THE CITY
COUNCIL.
I KNOW THAT CITY SUSTAINABILITY
STAFF HAS DRAFTED PORTIONS
OF THE COMP PLAN AND HAS
PRESUMABLY ENDORSED IT.
I RESPECTFULLY DISAGREE WITH
ELEMENTS THAT ARE IN THE PLAN
NOW.
I DON'T ACCEPT SUBSTITUTING
RESILIENCE WHICH IS MENTIONED
IN ASTOUNDING FIFTY FOUR TIMES
IN THE PLAN FOR CLIMATE ACTION
WHICH IS MENTIONED ONCE AND
ONLY EQUIVOCALLY IS SOMETHING
WE HAVE TO BALANCE AGAINST
OTHER THINGS LIKE
AFFORDABILITY.
YES, WE MUST ADAPT TO CLIMATE
CHANGE BUT NOT AS A SUBSTITUTE
FOR ELIMINATING EMISSIONS WHICH
THIS PLAN IS WRITTEN DOES NOT
EVEN ASPIRE TO.
ALTHOUGH AGAIN DENSITY WILL
CERTAINLY HELP THE PLAN ALSO
PERPETUATES THE FALSE DICHOTOMY
OF AFFORDABILITY VERSUS
SUSTAINABILITY.
WE STILL THINK PEOPLE LEAVE
THESE THINGS IN THE TWENTY YEAR
PLAN WITHOUT A COMMUNITY
DISCUSSION ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY
THAT HAS TO HAPPEN INSTEAD.
WELL I'M ABOUT TO RUN OUT
OF TIME SO LET ME JUST THANK
YOU ALL AGAIN FOR HEARING ME
OUT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. GEBHARDT.
HELLO
.
MY NAME IS RICHARD DAWKINS AND
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD AND
I'VE LIVED HERE FOR MOST OF MY
EIGHT YEARS.
>> I'M A RETIRED TEACHER AND I
TAUGHT BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY AND
VERY MUCH A BELIEVER IN THAT
AND THAT'S THE REASON WHY I GOT
VERY MUCH INVOLVED IN SOMETHING
THAT HASN'T EVEN BEEN MENTIONED
TONIGHT AND SHOULD BE I THINK
BROUGHT TO YOUR ATTENTION AND
THAT IS SOLER'S SO I BECAUSE
OF MY BACKGROUND FELT VERY
STRONGLY THAT I KNOW THAT THE
CLIMATE IS CHANGING AND IT'S
ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE AND
THOSE OF US THAT CAN OR SHOULD
TRY TO HELP AND THAT'S WHAT I
GOT AND WHY I GOT INVOLVED IN
SOLAR PANELS AND I AM PRETTY
MUCH OFF GRID AND IN FACT ON A
DAY LIKE TODAY I SUPPLY ENOUGH
ELECTRICITY FOR SIX HOUSES
AROUND ME.
OK, NOW THE PROBLEM IS IF YOU
LOOK AT YOUR MAP I'M IN A
TRANSITION ZONE.
>> I WAS RUN AND MY HOUSE IS AT
A PEAK 16 FEET OFF THE GROUND
AND MY PANELS ARE ALL FACING
WEST BECAUSE I KNOW THERE ARE
TREES IN THE THE SOUTH SIDE.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT IF I'M
PRETTY SURE THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO ALLOW AN 80 FOOT BUILDING
BECAUSE THIS IS TRANSITION
RIGHT NEXT TO ME ON THE WEST
SIDE WHICH IS THE NEXT HOUSE
OVER MY SOLAR PANELS WILL BE
USELESS BECAUSE I NEED SUN FROM
NOON THROUGH THE AFTERNOON AND
THAT'S WEST.
SO I DON'T SEE ANYTHING IN YOUR
PLAN AT ALL ABOUT OUT AND THIS
IS SUPPOSED TO BE A CITY THAT'S
INTERESTED IN ECOLOGY AND IN
FACT I HAVE GIVEN TALKS BEFORE
YOUR EIGHT TO ZERO GROUP
ENCOURAGING PEOPLE TO GO SOLAR
AND I'M A LITTLE BIT CHAGRINED
THAT I DID THAT BECAUSE THERE'S
NOTHING TO SAY THAT AN 80 FOOT
BUILDING CAN BE PUT RIGHT NEXT
TO YOUR HOUSE.
I STRONGLY, STRONGLY THINK THAT
YOU SHOULD RETHINK PROTECTING
SOLAR PANELS AND ENCOURAGING
THEM.
I MEAN OUR FUTURE IS GOING TO
DEPEND UPON PEOPLE THAT GET
INVOLVED IN SOLAR PANELS.
THANK YOU.
WELL, HELLO COMMISSIONERS.
MY NAME'S CURTIS DAVIS.
I RESIDE FIVE OR FIVE NORTH FOR
TAV WARD ONE AND I HAVE BEEN A
RESIDENT OF THAT PROPERTIES
SINCE NINETEEN SIXTY.
>> AS YOU COULD TELL I WENT
THROUGH ELEMENTARY JUNIOR HIGH
AND HIGH SCHOOL HERE I WENT
AWAY TO GET MY EDUCATION AND
COME BACK HOME AND I LEFT A
RESIDENCE THAT WAS IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WAS PROBABLY
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND WHEN I
CAME HOME I LOOK AROUND THIS
ROOM AND THE CITIZENS THAT I
SEE DON'T REFLECT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT I LEFT TO
COME BACK TO YOU AND I AM FOR
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND PLAN USE
REALLY ENTAILS AND ALSO THE
FACT THAT I AM ALL FOR MORE
HOUSING, I THINK THAT WE SHOULD
BE ABLE TO HAVE CITIZEN OF ALL
INCOME LEVELS AND NATIONALITIES
TO BE ABLE TO LIVE IN THIS
BEAUTIFUL CITY.
I LOVE IT VERY MUCH.
I'M SO GLAD TO BE HOME.
WHAT I DON'T SEE IS ANY
CONSTRAINTS OR ANY INDIVIDUALS
HAVING PUSHED BACK ON WHAT I
SEE BEING BUILT AROUND ME.
I'M RIGHT ON THE CORNER
OF KINGSLEY AND FOURTH AND
FOURTH AND BEEKS AND THAT AREA
TO THE SOUTH OF ME IS ZONED
HISTORIC.
IT STOPS AT MY STREET AND WE
ARE ONE BUT NOW WE'RE IN
ACCORDING TO THE PLAN GOING TO
BE IN A TRANSITION ZONE AND I
DON'T THINK IT JUST FITS
BECAUSE ONE DIVERSITY IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD IT'S THIRTY YEARS
GONE QUALITY OF LIFE NOW I
THINK SHOULD BE ONE OF THE MORE
IMPORTANT THINGS.
SO I'M JUST ASKING THE
COMMISSION TO PAUSE, GIVE US
MORE DETAIL AND MORE FEEDBACK
FROM THE COMMUNITIES THAT THESE
NEW POLICIES WILL AFFECT.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO DANIEL MARKWARD.
IT'S HARD TO FOLLOW MY MY
NEIGHBOR THERE BECAUSE WE MOVED
INTO THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD
THREE YEARS AGO AS RETIREES.
OUR DAUGHTER MOVED IN ARBER
NINETY THREE WE'VE BEEN HERE
MANY MANY TIMES BUT WE MOVED
INTO A FOUR STORY CONDO ON SOME
STREET JUST SOUTH OF THE
BROADWAY BRIDGE WITH ONE CROSS
FROM THE AMTRAK STATION.
THE BUILDING WE MOVED INTO WAS
BUILT FOR STORIES THAT WAS THE
HIGHEST IT COULD BE AT THE TIME
.
WE'RE LOOKING AT TRANSITION
ZONE WITH POTENTIALLY SEVEN
STORY BUILDING.
WE'RE ADJACENT TO A LARGE
UNDERDEVELOPED LOT OWNED BY A
SINGLE MOTHER DEVELOPER.
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE TRAFFIC
DEPOSITARY IS A MESS AS RUSH
HOUR BOTH MORNING AND NIGHT.
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT TRAFFIC
GENERATED BY THE BROADWAY WEST
DEVELOPMENT.
>> I THINK IT'S INEVITABLE THAT
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD IMMEDIATE
NEIGHBORHOOD WILL BE HIRED
DENSITY AND TALLER BUILDINGS
AND IN SPITE OF ALL OF MY
CONCERNS I.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THE
DIRECTION IT'S GOING, THE
METHOD THAT YOU'RE TAKING.
I'VE HAD NO TROUBLE GETTING
INFORMATION ABOUT THIS PLAN FOR
THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS.
NONE OF I THINK OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD WILL IF PROPERLY
DESIGNED AND DEVELOPED WILL BE
A BETTER NEIGHBORHOOD WITH MORE
FOOT TRAFFIC, MORE PEOPLE GOING
TO CONCERTS TO THE UNIVERSITY,
TO THE MARKETS, TO RESTAURANTS
.
I ALSO WANT TO COMMENT ON TAXES
WE LIVED IN CHICAGO AND
.
STREETERVILLE 20TH FLOOR CONDO
WE LIVED IN CHICAGO AND
OUR NEW BUILDING OUR TAXES IN
STREETERVILLE 20TH FLOOR CONDO
ANN ARBOR ARE 50 PERCENT
OUR NEW BUILDING OUR TAXES IN
HIGHER.
ANN ARBOR ARE 50 PERCENT
IT'S STAGGERING.
HIGHER.
IT'S JUST SHOCKING AT THIS
IT'S STAGGERING.
POINT.
IT'S JUST SHOCKING AT THIS
IT'S AT THIS POINT MAYBE NOT
POINT.
FIVE YEARS FROM NOW AT THIS
IT'S AT THIS POINT MAYBE NOT
POINT WE CAN AFFORD TO PAY
FIVE YEARS FROM NOW AT THIS
THOSE TAXES AND QUITE HONESTLY
POINT WE CAN AFFORD TO PAY
I'M HAPPY TO PAY THOSE TAXES.
THOSE TAXES AND QUITE HONESTLY
I WOULD I DON'T KNOW HOW THE
I'M HAPPY TO PAY THOSE TAXES.
FUNDS ARE ALLOCATED.
I WOULD I DON'T KNOW HOW THE
I URGE YOU TO DO EVERYTHING YOU
FUNDS ARE ALLOCATED.
CAN DO TO TAKE MONEY FROM US.
I URGE YOU TO DO EVERYTHING YOU
PEOPLE LIKE US AND INVEST IT IN
CAN DO TO TAKE MONEY FROM US.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, SUBSIDIZED
PEOPLE LIKE US AND INVEST IT IN
HOUSING TO THE EXTENT YOU NEED
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, SUBSIDIZED
TO.
HOUSING TO THE EXTENT YOU NEED
AND I DON'T EVEN NOBODY'S
TO.
TALKED ABOUT THE BASIC
AND I DON'T EVEN NOBODY'S
ASSUMPTION THAT ANN ARBOR IS
TALKED ABOUT THE BASIC
ACCEPTING THE CAPITAL
ASSUMPTION THAT ANN ARBOR IS
DEVELOPMENT MARKET AS THE ONLY
ACCEPTING THE CAPITAL
TOOL WE HAVE.
DEVELOPMENT MARKET AS THE ONLY
IT'S NOT THE ONLY TOOL WE HAVE.
TOOL WE HAVE.
IT'S SOCIALIZED HOUSING.
IT'S NOT THE ONLY TOOL WE HAVE.
AND HONESTLY I DON'T THINK
IT'S SOCIALIZED HOUSING.
YOU'RE CONSIDERING BUT I'M ALL
AND HONESTLY I DON'T THINK
FOR REDISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH.
YOU'RE CONSIDERING BUT I'M ALL
>> THANK YOU.
FOR REDISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE YOUR HELLO.
THANK YOU.
>> HI.
APPRECIATE YOUR HELLO.
IT'S NICE TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
>> HI.
I APOLOGIZE I WASN'T INTENDING
IT'S NICE TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
ON SPEAKING SO I DURING THE
I APOLOGIZE I WASN'T INTENDING
MEETING I STARTED GETTING
ON SPEAKING SO I DURING THE
DOWNLOADS ALSO THAT LITTLE
MEETING I STARTED GETTING
FREIGHT TRAIN THAT'S MY INSULIN
DOWNLOADS ALSO THAT LITTLE
.
FREIGHT TRAIN THAT'S MY INSULIN
SO IF I TIP OVER AND SPEED IT
.
UP I WANT TO ONLY ADDRESS
SO IF I TIP OVER AND SPEED IT
THINGS THAT I HEARD TONIGHT
UP I WANT TO ONLY ADDRESS
POSSIBLY AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THINGS THAT I HEARD TONIGHT
IT WAS AT THE PITTSVILLE
POSSIBLY AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
MEETING THE OTHER DAY.
IT WAS AT THE PITTSVILLE
I WAS OUTSIDE AT THE TABLE
MEETING THE OTHER DAY.
HANDING OUT LITERATURE BUT I
I WAS OUTSIDE AT THE TABLE
UNDERSTOOD FROM THE DISCUSSION
HANDING OUT LITERATURE BUT I
GOING ON INSIDE WITH THE MAYOR
UNDERSTOOD FROM THE DISCUSSION
AND SEVERAL CITY COUNCIL
GOING ON INSIDE WITH THE MAYOR
MEMBERS AND THE PEOPLE FROM THE
AND SEVERAL CITY COUNCIL
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT THE PLANNER
MEMBERS AND THE PEOPLE FROM THE
ADMITTED THAT NOTHING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT THE PLANNER
CUP IS GOING TO GUARANTEE
ADMITTED THAT NOTHING IN THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
CUP IS GOING TO GUARANTEE
THAT'S A GIVEN.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
HE ADMITTED IT IN THE MEETING
THAT'S A GIVEN.
TO CAN'T READ MY OWN WRITING
HE ADMITTED IT IN THE MEETING
DEAR.
TO CAN'T READ MY OWN WRITING
HOW ARE YOU?
DEAR.
OK, WE LIVE ON A PIECE
HOW ARE YOU?
OF PROPERTY BEFORE WE PURCHASE
OK, WE LIVE ON A PIECE
WE CHECKED WITH PLANNING WE HAD
OF PROPERTY BEFORE WE PURCHASE
MY HUSBAND WAS ABLE TO BUILD A
WE CHECKED WITH PLANNING WE HAD
STUDIO.
MY HUSBAND WAS ABLE TO BUILD A
HE'S HE'S AN ARTIST AND A
STUDIO.
RETIRED PROFESSOR AND SO WE
HE'S HE'S AN ARTIST AND A
REALIZED THE BUILDING WAS BUILT
RETIRED PROFESSOR AND SO WE
IN 2014 AND 2016.
REALIZED THE BUILDING WAS BUILT
I THINK YOU PASSED THE U.D.
IN 2014 AND 2016.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
I THINK YOU PASSED THE U.D.
WE HAD A PERFECT PLACE.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
IT HAS AN UPSTAIRS IT'S
WE HAD A PERFECT PLACE.
UNFINISHED SO WE THOUGHT OH I
IT HAS AN UPSTAIRS IT'S
GUESS WE COULD DO THAT.
UNFINISHED SO WE THOUGHT OH I
AND THEN WHEN WE CHECKED ON IT
GUESS WE COULD DO THAT.
SO THERE IS NO GRAVITY SYSTEM
AND THEN WHEN WE CHECKED ON IT
CAN GO OUT TO DO WATER AND
SO THERE IS NO GRAVITY SYSTEM
SEWER OUT THERE.
CAN GO OUT TO DO WATER AND
MY HUSBAND'S STUDIO DOESN'T
SEWER OUT THERE.
HAVE WATER.
MY HUSBAND'S STUDIO DOESN'T
HE CARRIES IT OUT WHEN WE CHECK
HAVE WATER.
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE A SYSTEM PUT
HE CARRIES IT OUT WHEN WE CHECK
IN IT WAS AT THAT TIME CLOSE TO
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE A SYSTEM PUT
THIRTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
IN IT WAS AT THAT TIME CLOSE TO
FOR WATER AND SEWER.
THIRTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
NOW IT'S PROBABLY FORTY OR
FOR WATER AND SEWER.
FORTY FIVE.
NOW IT'S PROBABLY FORTY OR
SO WHY WOULD WE HOW COULD WE
FORTY FIVE.
EVEN DO THAT BECAUSE WE'D HAVE
SO WHY WOULD WE HOW COULD WE
TO FINISH IT OFF.
EVEN DO THAT BECAUSE WE'D HAVE
NICE CONCEPT BUT NOT WORKING
TO FINISH IT OFF.
AND THEN YEARS THAT'S A REAL
NICE CONCEPT BUT NOT WORKING
SORE POINT WITH ME YOU TALK
AND THEN YEARS THAT'S A REAL
ABOUT THIS EXISTENTIAL CRISIS
SORE POINT WITH ME YOU TALK
OF HOUSING AND YOU PERMIT HOUSE
ABOUT THIS EXISTENTIAL CRISIS
STORIES TO BE BUILT EVERYWHERE.
OF HOUSING AND YOU PERMIT HOUSE
MOST PROGRESSIVE CITIES
HAVE
OUTLAWED THEM NEW YORK A LOT
OF BIG CITIES IN EUROPE AND IN
THE US ARE OUTLAWING THEM ONE
PLACE IN OHIO IS OUT FOR
HEAVEN'S SAKES.
>> SO THEY SHOULD BE OUTLAWED
REALLY AND YOU'RE ALLOWING NEW
ONES TO BE BUILT.
OK, PARTNER SHORT TERM RENTALS
SO THEY'RE MAKING A FORTUNE
WITH SHORT TERM RENTALS, MORE
EXISTENTIAL HOUSING CRISIS
DEVELOPERS GET TO MAKE MORE
WELL I'M SORRY.
OK, I'M SORRY STEER'S OK.
OH I DO WANT TO MENTION ONE
OF THE VERY PASSIONATE YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO WAS UP HERE SORT
OF YOUNG ADAM WHAT'S HIS NAME?
I'M SORRY I'VE FORGOTTEN ADAM
THE YOUNG MAN WHO SPOKE SO MUCH
WITH SO MUCH PASSION ABOUT
HOUSING.
HE'S A BILLIONAIRE.
HE'S VERY YOUNG BUT HE'S A
BILLIONAIRE.
OH, I'M SORRY.
I'M JUST GETTING STARTED.
>> I'M SORRY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
I'M PATRICE MATUSIK AND I LIVE
IN THE BROOKSIDE NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF TOWN
OF I SAVED FOR A COUPLE
OF DECADES ACTUALLY AND I'M NOT
SUGGESTING EVERYBODY SHOULD
HAVE TO DO THAT.
IT'D BE NICE, YOU KNOW, IF YOU
DIDN'T HAVE TO BEFORE I COULD
MOVE INTO MY VERY MODEST RANCH
HOUSE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD OF VERY
MODEST RANCH HOUSES WERE ALL
PRACTICALLY RANCH HOUSES ON THE
SOUTHEAST SIDE AND I'M THREE
HOUSES AWAY FROM ST. SCHOOL
ROAD WHICH IS CONSIDERED A
TRANSIT ZONE AND COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WHICH CAN HAVE THE SEVEN
STOREY BUILDINGS I GUESS IT IS
AND ALSO ABOUT THE STORIES I
MEAN YOU'VE GOT THE LOWER
HOUSING NOW AT THREE STORIES
AND HOW MANY FEET ARE THESE
ACTUALLY IS WHAT I WANT TO KNOW
IS THREE STORIES LIKE THIRTY
THEATERS AT THIRTY EIGHT FEET
ANYHOW WE'RE RANCH HOUSES.
OUR HOUSES ARE LIKE AT THE PEAK
FIFTEEN FEET TOPS SO AND THEN
THREE HOUSES AWAY I COULD HAVE
THIS SEVEN FOOT BUILDING LIKE
THE ONE OTHER GENTLEMAN WAS
SAYING THAT'S STONE SCHOOL RUNS
NORTH AND SOUTH SO THAT'S THE
WEST SUN IT WOULD BE COMPLETELY
BLOCKING AND ALSO IF WE HAD A
THREE STORY LET'S SAY THIRTY
FIVE FEET TO BE AVERAGE WITHIN
TEN FEET OF ME BECAUSE THE
SETBACKS ARE GOING TO BE LESS
AND YOU COULD FIT IN THOSE
LOCKS THREE STORIES THREE
APARTMENTS UP LET'S SAY THREE
LONG WAYS SO YOU'VE GOT NINE ON
EACH SIDE SAY EIGHTEEN.
SO WHAT I'M GOING TO HAVE LIKE
ALL THESE PEOPLE LIVING WITHIN
TEN FEET OF ME LOOKING DOWN
INTO MY HOUSE, EVERYBODY
LISTENING TO THE RADIO.
WELL THEY DON'T DO RADIOS
ANYMORE BUT YOU KNOW,
TELEVISIONS ARE PEOPLE LIVING
THEIR LIVES AND THE REASON I
SAVED UP AND I FOUND THIS
LITTLE HOUSE IN A QUIET
NEIGHBORHOOD IT'S A QUIET
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE HAVE LOTS OF TREES.
IT'S VERY GREEN.
I APPRECIATE THAT PEOPLE WANT
TO MOVE TO, YOU KNOW, HOUSING.
I MEAN I DID I SAVED UP FOR IT
FOR A LONG TIME AND I'D BE VERY
UNHAPPY IF THEN MY HOUSE WAS SO
DEVALUED BY THIS BUILDING GOING
UP NEXT TO ME AND LET'S FACE IT
,AFFORDABILITY FOR SOME MEANS
DEVALUING FOR OTHERS MY HOUSE
WHAT WOULD MY HOUSE BE WORTH
THEN?
SHOULD I BE THE FIRST ONE TO
SELL TO SOMEBODY WHO WANTS TO
BUILD IT AND MY NEIGHBORS ON
EITHER SIDE WITH THEIR LITTLE
HOUSES BE TOWERED OVER?
I DON'T KNOW FULL WELL I DIDN'T
GET ANYTHING I WANTED TO SELL
SO I WANTED TO SAY I JUST WANT
TO MAKE MYSELF THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS KAREN O'NEIL.
I LIVE NINETEEN TWENTY SCOTT
WOULD YOU NEED TO PAUSE THE
PLAN AS A PLANNING COMMISSION I
WOULD ASSUME YOU WOULD LIKE TO
BE SEEN AS A REASONABLE AND
THOUGHTFUL BODY THAT CAREFULLY
CONSIDERS THE TASKS AT HAND AND
WANTS TO PUT OUT AN EXCELLENT
WORK PRODUCT GIVEN THE FLAWS IN
THE ACLU BE RAISED BY THE
PUBLIC, DON'T YOU FEEL AN
OBLIGATION TO PAUSE THE PLAN SO
THAT THESE ITEMS CAN BE
ADDRESSED AND CORRECTED SO THAT
YOU CAN REGAIN THE PUBLIC TRUST
SO THAT THE RESIDENTS OF ANN
ARBOR WILL NOT BE SO DIVIDED
AND ANGRY A FEW OF THE PROBLEMS
THAT NEED TO BE ADDRESSED FALAK
OF CITY CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AS THE
PLAN IS DEVELOPED, THE PLAN AS
PRESENTED DOES NOT RESULT IN
MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
YOUR STATED GOAL ACRES OF CITY
OWNED OPEN SPACE WERE REMOVED
FROM PROTECTION FROM
DEVELOPMENT NO REALISTIC
DISCUSSION OF INFRASTRUCTURE
NECESSARY TO SUPPORT THE
ASSUMED GROWTH.
PLEASE CONSIDER PAUSING
APPROVAL OF THIS PROPOSED PLAN.
THERE IS A BETTER ONE OUT THERE
THAT WE CAN ALL AGREE WITH.
THANK THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING TOM STALBERG I AT
ONE TWO ZERO TO TREVER STREETS
IN LOWERTOWN I DID GENERAL
DENSITY AND I LOVE IT.
>> I MOVE BACK TO THIS TOWN
NINETEEN NINETY FOUR INTO A
TRIPLEX FIXER UPPER OR TWO
FRIENDS WE MOVED DOWN FROM
THERE BOUGHT TO SIDE BY SIDE
DUPLEXES THAT WERE FIXER UPPERS
OVER ON THE NORTH SIDE AND MADE
A BUSINESS OUT OF A LOT
OF DUPLEXES THAT WE'VE
CREATED AND PROVIDED AFFORDABLE
WORKFORCE HOUSING FOR THIRTY
YEARS.
>> IT CAN BE DONE PAUSE THE
PLAN AND DO IT RIGHT BECAUSE
THIS PLAN DOES NOT DO IT RIGHT.
THIS PLAN WILL NOT DELIVER ON
ITS MAIN GOALS
OF AFFORDABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY AND EQUITY.
THE BIGGEST REASON IS IT RELIES
ON INDIRECT SOLUTIONS.
THIS ADMINISTRATION HAS
RECENTLY ADMITTED THAT THERE
WILL NOT BE REDUCED HOUSING
PRICES DUE TO THE PLAN THAT THE
BEST THAT WE CAN HOPE FOR WILL
BE A SLOWING OF THE GROWTH
OF THE PRICE INCREASES IN THE
LONG RUN IN THE LONG RUN.
SO WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
IT MEANS A LOT OF EXPENSIVE
HOUSING.
IT JUST MEANS IF YOU GOT A
MILLION DOLLAR CONDO IT MIGHT
NOT BE A MILLION ONE NEXT IT
WILL BE A MILLION FIFTY IF IT
SLOWS THE RATE OF GROWTH YOU'RE
TWENTY ONE DOLLARS A MONTH
STUDIO APARTMENT MIGHT NOT GO
UP TO TWENTY TWO HUNDRED IT
MIGHT ONLY GO UP TO TWENTY ONE
FIFTY.
THAT'S SLOWING THE RATE
OF GROWTH OF PRICES.
>> MEANWHILE IN THE MODEST
SEGMENT OF THE MARKET HERE WHAT
LITTLE HOUSING WE DO HAVE THAT
IS REASONABLY PRICED ATTAINABLE
PRICED IS WHAT'S GOING TO BE
TARGETED BY DEVELOPERS FOR TEAR
DOWN REPLACEMENT WITH MORE
EXPENSIVE HOUSING.
SO WE ARE REDUCING THE SUPPLY
OF MODERATELY PRICED HOUSING,
REDUCING THE SUPPLY
OF MODERATELY PRICED HOUSING
ACCELERATES THE INCREASE IN
PRICE OF THE MODERATE SEGMENT
OF THE MARKET.
SO WE'RE ADDING LUXURY HIGH
PRICED HOUSING AND IT'S ONLY
GOING TO GO A LITTLE BIT LESS
AND WE'RE REDUCING HOUSING AT
THE LEVEL THAT WE WANT THE
INTANGIBLY PRICED HOUSING
REDUCING THE SUPPLY THEY'RE
ACCELERATING THE GROWTH OF THE
PRICES.
HOW DO WE FIX THIS?
WE ALREADY HAVE THINGS IN OUR
CODE RIGHT NOW THAT ALLOW US TO
GET BONUSES FOR DENCE FOR YOU
WANT A LITTLE DENSITY, A LITTLE
HEIGHT, YOU GET SUSTAINABILITY.
YOU HAVE TO PROVIDE
SUSTAINABILITY OR PROVIDE
AFFORDABILITY.
WHAT IF WE DIDN'T UPSILON IN
THIS PLAN AT ALL WITHOUT
DEMANDING THAT TRADE OFF
OF SUSTAINABILITY OR
AFFORDABILITY?
THAT'S ONE LAND TRUST AND OUR
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST IT
DIRECTLY PROVIDES HOUSING IN
THE MARKET SEGMENT.
WHAT DO WE WANT TO PROVIDE IF
YOU DO NOT HAVE DIRECT MEASURES
IN THIS PLAN THE PLAN FAILS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
HEY THIS IS NOBODY AT LEAST
THAT'S WHAT I'VE BEEN ABLE TO
NIGHT SINCE I'D LIKE TO LIVE IN
A SKYSCRAPER AND WHEN WE GET
OUR FIRST SKYSCRAPER IN TOWN I
HOPE TO BE ABLE TO MOVE IN.
OH I HOPE YOU'LL FIX THE GLITCH
IN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT
IS CURRENTLY DOWN ZONING MY
NEIGHBORHOOD OF PITTSFIELD
VILLAGE UNDER THE UNDER THE
HIGH LEVEL AREAS WE HAVE IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THREE BEST
MATCHES TRANSITION DISTRICT NOT
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL.
LIKEWISE I THINK IT'S A MISTAKE
THAT THE CURRENT DRAFT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN INCLUDES
LOWERTOWN AS A TRANSITION
DISTRICT.
THIS IS THE AREA OF TOWN THAT
INCLUDES WALL STREET, BROADWAY
,CANAL STREET AND MAIDEN LANE
.
IT WAS BUILT BACK IN THE 19TH
CENTURY WITH THE VISION
OF BEING A MANHATTAN ON THE
HURON.
LET'S STRIVE TO MEET THAT
VISION.
IT'S IRONIC THAT THE VERY
PEOPLE WHO HAVE SPENT MANY
YEARS FOMENTING DISTRUST IN OUR
LOCAL
GOVERNMENT MAKING UP AND
REPEATING MISINFORMATION THAT
CITY COUNCILORS HAVE TO REPORT
AND BE VERBALLY AND PHYSICALLY
ABUSIVE TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMISSION AND THOSE WHO WANT
AN THE TO IMPLEMENT KAMALA
HARRIS VISION OF MORE HOUSING
WOULD INSINUATE POMPEIAN
TACTICS FROM THE CITY PAUSE THE
PLAN REMINDS ME A LOT OF DONALD
TRUMP TRYING TO PAUSE
IMMIGRATION I GUESS THE ADAGE
THAT EVERY ACCUSATION IS AN
ADMISSION APPLIES TO THESE
FOLKS TOO.
BUT TO NOTE ABOUT THE TIMING
OF THESE MEETINGS DEFINITELY
FAVORS PEOPLE WHO ARE WEALTHIER
AND HAVE MORE FREE TIME.
FOR EXAMPLE RETIREES I HAVE
SEVEN FRIENDS WHO HAVE TRIED TO
MAKE IT TONIGHT BUT COULD NOT
GET THE TIME OFF WORK PLEASE
REMEMBER THAT WHEN RICH
RETIREES COMPLAIN ABOUT BEING
UNDERREPRESENTED.
SO FAR I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR
AND APARTMENTS, FAMILY HOMES
AND TOWNHOUSES.
I WOULD LOVE AN APARTMENT NOW
IF WE ACTUALLY HAD ENOUGH
SUPPLY OF THEM AND TO BE FRANK
THE DETACHED HOUSE I LIVED IN
WAS THE WORST LEAST ADD A
BRIGHT LIKE EXPERIENCE I HAVE
HAD IN THE CITY AND SINCE I'VE
HAD SOME EXTRA TIME HERE ON
HILLS IS WITHOUT A DOUBT THE
WORST GOLF COURSE ON WHICH I
HAVE EVER HAD THE MISFORTUNE TO
PLAY.
IF SOMEONE THINKS YOU'RE ON
FILLES IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN
HOUSING I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT
THEY GIVE A HOUSE TO AVALON AND
MOVE THERE.
>> THANK
HELLO WELCOME.
HELLO SHANNON LIOW TWO EIGHT
SEVEN ZERO OAKDALE DRIVE.
I'M HERE IN SUPPORT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
A GENUINE QUESTION THAT I HAVE
HAD THROUGHOUT.
THIS IS WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF WE
PASSED THE PLAN LIKE IS IS IT
THE SPACE TO ASK MORE QUESTIONS
IS IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS.
I FEEL LIKE THIS IS A GREAT
TIME TO DO SO OR THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO ARE EXPERTS HERE WHO
CAN ANSWER QUESTIONS IF IT'S TO
VALIDATE THE RESEARCH OR
EDUCATE OURSELVES MORE ON THE
RISKS.
I WOULD LOVE NOTHING MORE THAN
PEOPLE TO READ THE LITERATURE
AND MANY EXISTING STUDIES THAT
HAVE SHOWN THE LINKAGE BETWEEN
MORE HOUSING AND AFFORDABILITY
IF IT'S TO GIVE INPUT.
I REALLY WOULD LOVE MORE INPUT
FROM EVERYONE I LIKE.
I LOVE HEARING IF PEOPLE WANT
MORE GREEN SPACE LIKE THEY WANT
TO HAVE THEIR CURRENT EXISTING
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LIKE ALL
OF THAT SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO
THE TABLE AND THAT'S THE
CONVERSATION I WANT TO HAVE.
>> I THINK FOR ME THE BIGGEST
THING IS WHAT DO WE REALLY CARE
ABOUT IN ANN ARBOR WE TALK
ABOUT I GUESS LIKE THE
KNOCKINGS PROTEST PEOPLE ARE
SHOWING UP AND THEY'RE LIKE
THESE ARE YOU KNOW, I CARE
ABOUT THIS INCLUSIVE INCLUSIVE
.
I CARE ABOUT PEOPLE BEING
WELCOME HERE.
I CARE ABOUT AFFORDABILITY AND
I I CAN'T FIGURE OUT HOW WE CAN
SAY THESE THINGS BUT ALSO NOT
ALLOW MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE HERE.
I UNDERSTAND HOW WE CAN PUSH
BACK AGAINST THE PLAN AND JUST
KEEP SAYING PAUSE THE PLAN FOR
SOMETHING THAT IS A VISION
BOARD FOR FUTURE ZONING LAW
THAT JUST REALLY ALLOWS PEOPLE
WHO OWN A LOT TO ADD MORE UNITS
OR MORE FLOORS IF THEY SO
CHOOSE.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND IT BUT WHAT
I CARE ABOUT IS AFFORDABILITY
AND IT MEANS I SEE TO DO THAT
IS MORE HOUSING I CARE ABOUT
MAKING TAKING CARE OF THE EARTH
THAT WE HAVE AND REDUCING
SPRAWL SO THAT WE CAN REDUCE
OUR EMISSIONS SO THAT WE CAN
WALK AND BIKE AND TAKE THE BUS
WHERE WE NEED TO GO TO.
I CARE ABOUT UNDOING THE RACIAL
HARM THAT WE'VE DONE TO THE
CITY.
>> WE'VE WE'VE KICKED OUT
PEOPLE WHO CAN'T AFFORD TO LIVE
HERE, PEOPLE WHO DON'T LOOK
LIKE US AND THE ONLY WAY TO GET
THEM BACK IN IS TO SAY HEY, YOU
BELONG HERE.
>> WE WANT TO BUILD FOR YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
.
HELLO.
HI I'M RALPH KATZ.
I LIVE IN SIX OR FIVE
SCOTTSDALE.
I'VE BEEN THERE SINCE NINETEEN
EIGHTY SIX A SINGLE FAMILY
HOME.
MY KIDS GREW UP THERE.
IT'S IT'S A VERY MIXED
NEIGHBORHOOD ETHNICALLY IT'S A
LOVELY PLACE FOR ME TO LIVE.
IT HAS BEEN FOR MY KEEP MY KIDS
AND NOW MY MY GRANDDAUGHTER
LIVES IN TOWN
.
ON THE ONE HAND IT'S A SHAME TO
SEE NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE MINE NOT
BEING BUILT.
WE WATCH THAT DARN MOVIE EVERY
CHRISTMAS AND I WONDER WHERE
GEORGE BAILEY REALLY IS.
BUT THIS PLANNING PROCESS IS
VERY IMPORTANT.
THE PLAN HAS TO BE RIGOROUS.
LOOKING AT THE PLAN FROM GRAND
RAPIDS, ANN ARBOR HAS WHAT A
HUNDRED AND TWENTY THOUSAND
PEOPLE IN GRAND RAPIDS.
ONE HUNDRED AND NINETY
THOUSAND.
THEIR PLAN IS TWICE THE SIZE
AND IT TOOK THREE TIMES AS LONG
TO DO AND I IF THERE ARE THINGS
THAT ARE MISSING FROM OUR PLAN
AND THEY CAN BE SUPPLIED AND
THE PLAN MADE MORE RIGOROUS
THINGS LIKE PARKLAND ADDRESS
DEFINITELY INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
SEWER WATER ELECTRIC ADDRESSED
IN THE PLAN THEN THE PLAN WILL
BE INDEED MORE COMPREHENSIVE.
>> I LOOKED AT IT AND I SAW
THOSE CARTOONS AND I JUST WENT
OH WHAT WHAT'S MISSING HERE?
CERTAINLY NOT A LAUGH TRACK BUT
I PUT THE CARTOONS ON THE SAME
LEVEL AS THAT.
I THINK THIS IS SERIOUS
BUSINESS AND I THINK I THINK WE
REALLY NEED TO TO BE AS TRULY
COMPREHENSIVE AS WE CAN IF
PARKLAND IS LEFT OUT OF THERE,
IT NEEDS TO BE INCLUDED BECAUSE
THAT IS PART OF PLANNING
PROCESS AND I CAN'T FIND ANY
OTHER WAY TO FILL MY THREE
MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK
HEARING YOUR SLEEP AND
POLYSYLLABIC WAS BORN AND
RAISED IN ANN ARBOR AND I JUST
HAVE A COUPLE OF THOUGHTS AND
SUGGESTIONS I GUESS FIRST
OF ALL I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT
YOU KNOW THE GROUP THAT WE
BELONG TO THE THE PLAN WE DON'T
WANT TO STOP THE PLAN.
WE JUST WANT THINGS TO SLOW
DOWN A LITTLE BIT AND WE'D LIKE
TO HAVE MORE OF A VOICE I THINK
IN WHAT'S HAPPENING TO OUR
COMMUNITIES IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THAT'S WHAT I KEEP HEARING FROM
PEOPLE AND I DON'T KNOW HOW
THAT WOULD AFFECT PEOPLE IF WE
WE SEEM TO HAVE TWO VERY
POLARIZED GROUPS, PERHAPS
THERE'S A WAY TO GET THESE TWO
GROUPS TOGETHER.
REPRESENTATIVES WITH PEOPLE
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION
WHERE THEY CAN ACTUALLY TALK
AND TRY TO WORK THROUGH SOME
OF THESE.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE FAST
TRACK.
I KNOW SOME PEOPLE ARE SAYING
WELL IT'S TWO YEARS BUT THAT'S
NOT TWO YEARS FOR EVERYBODY.
SO ANYWAY, I JUST WANTED TO
SAY, YOU KNOW, AGAIN, WE'RE NOT
WE'RE NOT STUCK THE PLAN WE
WOULD JUST LIKE TO HAVE A
LITTLE MORE VOICE IN WHAT'S
HAPPENING WITH IT.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
>> DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
CALLERS?
OUR FIRST CALLER IS PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN THREE OR FOUR
OR FIVE YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS PLANNING COMMISSION
.
YOU MAY NEED TO PAY HELLO KITTY
CAN WALK FIVE CAN HEAR ME.
>> YES WE CAN WALK FOR I WASN'T
I WASN'T GOING TO CALL IN
TONIGHT BUT I KEPT HEARING WELL
MANY PEOPLE SAYING I HAD MY TV
VERY WELL MOVING PEOPLE SAY
THIS OF COURSE IS COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN BECAUSE IT
LOWERED THE WOULD LOWER HOUSING
COSTS BUT IT WASN'T THE PLAN
THE WAY IT IS NOW WILL NOT
LOWER HOUSING COSTS.
>> I WISH IT DID BUT IT WON'T.
WE NEED A BETTER PLAN THAT
REALLY WILL LOWER RENTS AND
HOME PRICES AND GIVE PEOPLE
WHAT THEY WANT AND DESERVE.
>> THAT'S WHY WE NEED TO PASS
THE PLAN
.
AND I JUST HEARD SOMEONE SAY
PEOPLE WEREN'T PAYING ATTENTION
UNTIL THEIR OWN NEIGHBORHOOD
WAS ON THE CHOPPING BLOCK.
>> THAT'S THE ISSUE.
OUR NEIGHBORHOODS ARE GOING TO
BE AROUND THE CHOPPING BLOCK IF
THIS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN GOES
FORWARD THE WAY IT IS, PLEASE
PASS THE PLAN AND LET'S GET IT
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS LUIS
VASQUEZ.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING MISSION GREETINGS LUIS
VASQUEZ NINE ZERO NINE PARDON
DRIVE FRIENDS AND ALLBRIGHT
COMMISSIONERS' LEND ME YOUR
EARS I COME NOT TO PAUSE THE
PLAN BUT TO PRAISE THE PLAN BUT
ANOTHER SHAKESPEARE DID YOU DID
YOU SEE THE NEWS FROM BERKELEY
,CALIFORNIA JUST A FEW DAYS
AGO?
BERKELEY WHICH WAS THE FIRST
CITY IN THE NATION TO ADOPT
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING NOW
THEY'RE GOING TO ALLOW SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN MOST
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT IN BERKELEY,
CALIFORNIA TOOK YEARS AND MORE
THAN 40 OR 50 MEETINGS AS KIND
OF LIKE AS WHAT WE'RE SEEING
GOING ON IN AN HOUR OR SO.
I'M DUBIOUS AS TO ANY REASON AS
TO WHY TO PAUSE THE PLAN.
I THINK YOU'RE DOING A GREAT
JOB AND YOU SHOULD CONTINUE TO
DO SO.
GO FULL SPEED AHEAD.
WE NEED MORE HOUSING OF ALL
KINDS BUILT IN AND ORDER.
I'M GOING TO CLOSE BY SINGING A
LITTLE SONG.
I'VE TAKEN INSPIRATION FROM
OTHER STARBRIGHT YOU KNOW WHO
HAVE SUNG IN PUBLIC MEETINGS
BEFORE BUT HOLLY HI BILL.
THOSE KIND RISES DON'T DRIVE
YOUR CHEVY TO THE DOWNTOWN,
RIDE YOUR BIKE, GO BY AND THE
LANDLORD NIMBY'S HOLD THEIR
HEADS THEN THEY CRY SAYING THIS
WILL MAKE US SAY BYE BYE.
THEY US SAY BYE A THANK YOU FOR
YOUR TIME AND KEEP ON GOING.
THANK YOU
.
ANOTHER HAND HAS RAISED GYMPIE
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO DRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION.
OH COOL I'M SO GLAD TO GET A
CHANCE TO TALK.
I HOPE YOU CAN HEAR ME OK WE
CAN GREAT.
>> SO I'VE I'VE BEEN LISTENING
IT'S DEFINITELY EASIER TO
LISTEN FROM AFAR THAN TO BE
RIGHT IN THE ROOM.
THERE CAN BE VERY PAINFUL TO
FEEL THE ENERGY OF SO MANY
UNWELCOMING PEOPLE AND THAT'S
KIND OF THE THING THAT I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT FOR JUST A MINUTE
HERE IS THAT I AND I THINK MANY
OF US FEEL LIKE THIS COUNTRY IS
MOVING IN THE DIRECTION
OF PRETTY SEVERE EARLY
UNWELCOMING SPIRITS AND SINCE
WELL I LIVE IN NINE TWELVE
PAMONA ROAD AND I'VE BEEN ALIVE
FOREVER AND I WROTE THE VERY
FIRST SONG PUT GOSH I I I
REALLY LIKE ANN ARBOR AND I AND
I LIKE HOW WELCOMING IT'S
ALWAYS FELT TO ME UNTIL JUST
RECENTLY WHEN THERE HAVE BEEN
THIS SORT OF RISE PAUSE THE
WELCOMENESS I DON'T WANT TO
PAUSE BEING WELCOMING HERE.
I WANT TO WELCOME MORE PEOPLE
HERE AND I WANT TO DO IT WISELY
IN THE WAY THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS DONE.
I BELIEVE IN THE CAPABILITY
OF OUR CITY STAFF AND I BELIEVE
IN THE THE RESULTS OF THE
COUNCIL ELECTIONS FOR THE PAST
SEVERAL ELECTION CYCLES.
I BELIEVE THAT OUR CURRENT CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND MAYOR ALL
RAN ON A PRO HOUSING PLATFORM
AND AND I THINK THAT THAT'S
PART WHY THEY WERE ELECTED
BECAUSE THE MAJORITY
OF VANCOUVERITES WANT TO
WELCOME MORE RESIDENTS INTO ANN
ARBOR.
AND SO YEAH, I JUST REALLY WANT
TO ENCOURAGE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO STAY STRONG AND
AND LET'S KEEP GOING.
LET'S LET'S BUILD MORE HOUSING
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
THANKS VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
ATTENTION.
>> THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE?
I DO NOT SEE FURTHER HANDS
RAISED.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT NOW WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE ON TO SECTION SIX WHICH
IS COMMISSIONER RESPONSE.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
COMMISSION TO RESPOND AND
ADDRESS PUBLIC COMMENT THAT WE
HEARD.
COMMISSIONER WHITE, PLEASE KICK
US OFF.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
SOMEONE ASKED FOR A DEFINITION
I THINK IT WAS YOU THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING POINTIS ONE
IN THE CHAMBER FOR THOSE WHO
ARE LISTENING AND I DON'T
REMEMBER YOUR NAME I'M SORRY IT
IS ON PAGE OK?
IT'S ON PAGE THREE OF THE
HOUSING APPENDIX WHICH IS
AVAILABLE AT ENGAGE DOT GOV DOG
WHEN YOU LAND ON THAT PAGE YOU
CAN FIND THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE LINK AND WHEN YOU CLICK ON
THAT LINK IT IS THE THIRD LINK
IN THE LIST SO YOU'LL SEE THE
SECOND DRAFT, THE FIRST DRAFT
AND THEN YOU'LL SEE THE HOUSING
INDEX AND WE DO TAKE THE TIME
TO DEFINE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AT
THAT TIME.
THE OTHER THING THAT I WANTED
TO SAY JUST VERY QUICKLY IS WE
HAVE NOT MADE ANY DECISIONS
ABOUT SETBACKS THAT IS NOT A
PART OF THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PROCESS AT THIS POINT IT
WILL SHOW UP POTENTIALLY WHEN
WE GO TO MODIFY THE UDC.
SO A LOT NEIGHBORS HAVE TALKED
ABOUT BEING ABLE TO BUILD ALL
THE WAY UP TO THE PROPERTY LINE
.
NONE OF THAT IS GOING TO BE
ADDRESSED DIRECTLY IN THE
CONFERENCE OF LAND USE UNLESS I
AM INCORRECT.
>> DEPUTY MANAGER KELLY, IT'S
GOING TO SHOW UP IN THE UDC.
>> THAT WOULD BE THE MORE
APPROPRIATE PLACE TO DEFINE
DETAILS LIKE SETBACKS.
THOSE WERE THE TWO THINGS I
WANTED TO ADDRESS RIGHT AWAY.
SO THANK YOU.
I JUST STARTED SHRIMPING.
EVERYBODY THOUGHT THAT SORRY OK
MAJORITY RIGHTS TO THE WEBSITE
TO TALK TO YOU.
YEAH, I CAN REPEAT THE NAME THE
WEBSITE LINK IF YOU ME WHAT WAS
ONE YOU GIVING ENGAGE EIGHTY
EIGHT TO ENGAGE TO GOV. DOUG
AND THAT'S THE GENERAL WEBSITE
FOR COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SO
FROM THERE YOU'LL HAVE TO CLICK
OH SOMEBODY'S PULLING IT UP
HERE.
THANK YOU.
YOU'LL HAVE TO CLICK ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND PLAN TO GET
TO THE PAGE WHERE YOU CAN FIND
THE OTHER INFORMATION.
I ALSO JUST WANTED TO TACK ON A
COUPLE OF COMMENTS ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING SINCE THAT
SEEMS TO BE SOMETHING THAT
KEEPS COMING UP.
SOMEBODY SAID MR. LENAR
CONFESSED OR CONFIDED THIS
WOULD NOT GUARANTEE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
I THINK THIS PLAN ACTUALLY
DOESN'T GUARANTEE ANYTHING.
IT'S A IT'S A GUIDING DOCUMENT
THAT OUTLINES DIRECTION, VALUES
AND GOALS.
>> THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THAT
IS A WHOLE OTHER SET
OF PROCESSES.
HOWEVER, I JUST WANT TO REMIND
EVERYBODY THIS THE RESIDENCE
THE RESIDENCE OF AN OVERPASS,
AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE
WHICH MEANS PROPERTY TAX THAT
WE ALL PAY HOMEOWNERS AND
RENTERS PAY PAYS FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THE MORE DEVELOPMENT WE HAVE
THE MORE WE CAN AFFORD TO BUILD
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT WE HAVE
A SHORT TERM RENTAL REGULATION
IN THE CITY AND YOU CAN ONLY
HAVE A SHORT TERM RENTAL IN A
RESIDENTIAL ZONE IF ITS OWNER
OCCUPIED MEANING IT'S THE HOUSE
YOU OWN.
IT CAN'T BE A SPECULATOR COMING
IN AND BUYING A PROPERTY EXCEPT
FOR THOSE WHICH WERE
GRANDFATHERED IN WHEN WE
CHANGED THE RULES IN TWENTY
TWENTY SO COMMERCIAL MADE SHORT
TERM RENTALS DO NOT THERE'S NO
NEW DEVELOPMENT OF THOSE IN
RESIDENTIAL ZONES SO I JUST
WANT TO BE REALLY CLEAR ABOUT
THAT AND THEN I WANT TO ADDRESS
THIS IDEA THAT YOU CAN BUILD AN
EIGHTY FIVE FOOT TOWER OR MID
RISE BUILDING DIRECTLY NEXT TO
A SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
THE CURRENT TRANSIT CORRIDOR
ZONING AND THE TRANSITION
ZONING WILL HAVE BUFFER'S WE
ALWAYS BUILD THOSE IN SO WITHIN
A CERTAIN DISTANCE OF A
RESIDENTIAL ZONE THERE WILL BE
SETBACKS AND THERE WILL BE
STEPPED HEIGHT LIMITS THAT
RAISE THE FURTHER YOU GET FROM
A RESIDENTIAL LOT THE HIGHER
YOU CAN GO.
THERE WILL NOT BE AN EIGHTY
FIVE FOOT BUILDING NEXT TO A
SIXTEEN FOOT RANCH HOME SO I
JUST WANT
TO BE REALLY CLEAR
ABOUT THOSE THREE THINGS.
>> THINGS ARE ALL RIGHT, THANK
YOU HERE THE COMMISSIONERS WANT
TO COUNCIL MEMBER DESH AND THEN
GET YEAH THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO THANK I KNOW
SOME PEOPLE HAVE LEFT BUT I
WANT TO THANK YOU ALL FOR BEING
HERE.
TAKES COURAGE TO EXPRESS
DIVERSITY OF VIEWS WHEN THERE
ARE STRONG VIBES IN A ROOM IN
THIS ROOM HAS A STRONG VIBES
AND YOU HAVE ALL EXPRESSED A
LOT OF DIVERSITY OF VIEWS I I
WAS GOING TO SAY JUST TWO
THINGS BUT THEN A FEW MORE
FACTUAL THINGS CAME UP SO FIRST
THING I WANT TO SAY IS THAT THE
CITY IS NOT SEEKING DEVELOPMENT
OF THE GOLF COURSES.
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
DOES NOT EXCLUDE THE GOLF
COURSES AND HAS NOT REMOVED ANY
PARKLAND ACREAGE.
THE PARKS RECREATION OPEN SPACE
PLAN IS RETAINED BY THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
IT REMAINS IN EFFECT AS AN
ACCURATE IDENTIFICATION OF CITY
PARKS ASSETS AND THAT THOSE
FIGURES FROM THE PROPOSED PLAN
CONTAIN ALL OF THE PARKLAND
ACREAGE.
>> THERE'S NOTHING MISSING.
THERE'S NOT 400.
THERE'S NOT 437 ACRES MISSING.
THERE'S NOTHING MISSING FROM
THAT.
THE PLAN IS EVOLVING, HOWEVER
IN MILLER AVENUE HAS BEEN
REMOVED NOT FROM THE CITY BUT
FROM THE TRANSITION ZONE.
SO PEOPLE WHO WERE WORRIED
ABOUT MILLER BEING INCLUDED IN
TRANSITION THAT'S BEEN REMOVED.
MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT AH
ONE THING'S CURRENTLY ZONED ONE
ARE NOT IN TRANSITION AND SO
FOR FOLKS WHO'VE BROUGHT THAT
UP I WILL LOOK INTO THAT
PARTICULARLY THERE WERE A
COUPLE OF BOARD ONE FOLKS WHO
ASKED ABOUT THAT AND I DO WANT
TO LOOK AT THAT WE ARE
SUBSIDIZING HOUSING IN THIS
CITY THANKS TO YOUR GENEROSITY
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE
WHEN WE USE AFFORDABLE IN THAT
CONTEXT IT MEANS 80 OR 60
PERCENT OF THE AREA MEDIAN
INCOME AND LOWER AND IT MUST
MEET THOSE CRITERIA CAN'T
RESPOND TO YOU UNFORTUNATELY IN
THIS PERIOD.
>> BUT YOU CAN EMAIL ME AND I
WILL TALK TO YOU THEN.
>> SO THERE WAS ONE PERSON WHO
MENTIONED AN INTERESTING THING
WHICH IS THAT WE ARE NOT AN
ARBOR'S NOT HEMMED IN LIKE SAN
FRANCISCO.
>> WE CAN BUILD OUT.
IT IS TRUE THAT WE ARE NOT
HEMMED IN LIKE SAN FRANCISCO BY
A BEAUTIFUL OCEAN AND CRAZY OLD
REDWOODS.
BUT ACTUALLY WE THERE ARE TWO
LIMITING FACTORS THAT DO HARM
US IN.
ONE IS THAT WE HAVE CREATED A
GORGEOUS GREENBELT WHICH HAS
SAVED FARMLAND AND PARKLAND AND
SET LIMITS TO AN ARBOR'S
GROWTH.
THE OTHER IS THAT WE ARE
SURROUNDED BY MUNICIPALITIES
WHO WOULD NO DOUBT BE OFFENDED
IF WE BEGAN BUILDING HOUSING IN
THEM SO WE CAN'T JUST GROW IN
THE WAYS THAT CITIES LIKE
AUSTIN ARE GROWING BECAUSE THEY
JUST CONTINUE TO ENGULF LAND.
>> I WANT TO RESPOND TO THE
CONCERN THAT THERE'S NO RETAIL
ON THE BOTTOM FLOOR OF BEEKMAN.
YES.
YOU KNOW, DEVELOPERS FIND THAT
THEY HAVE DIFFICULTY GETTING
MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL MIXED USE
MEANING RESIDENTIAL AND TYPE
OF RETAIL FINANCED EVEN THOUGH
WE ALL SEE THAT IN MANY CITIES
WHERE WE TRAVEL AND WE
APPRECIATED THERE'S SOME OF IT
IN ANN ARBOR.
RETAIL HOWEVER HAS SPRUNG UP
ALL AROUND BEEKMAN.
THERE IS AN ORANGE MARKET.
THERE ARE THREE NEW
RESTAURANTS.
THERE IS A FABULOUS COFFEE SHOP
AND BAR KITTY CORNER FROM
BEEKMAN AT THE FOOT OF PONTIAC
AND THE DENSITY THAT THAT
DEVELOPER HAS BROUGHT TO
LOWERTOWN HAS FACILITATED THE
GROWTH OF THOSE BUSINESSES AND
SO IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE IN THE
SAME BUILDING WHEN DENSITY
COMES THERE CAN BE VIABLE
COMMERCIAL AND I JUST WANT TO
CLOSE BY SAYING I'VE BEEN
CANVASING IN WARD ONE THESE
PAST WEEKS AND I WANT TO THANK
EVERYONE WHO HAS TAKEN THE TIME
TO TALK TO ME BECAUSE CANVASING
IS ALWAYS INSPIRING AND I LEAVE
FEELING UPLIFTED EVERY TIME I
SCORE A CONVERSATION AT AN OPEN
DOOR WHETHER WE HAVE AGREED OR
NOT.
>> SO I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT
THANK YOU ALSO NO DISH MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THANK YOU.
I KNEW WE'D HAVE A LOT
OF COMMENTS TONIGHT AND LATE
TONIGHT WE'VE BEEN HEARING A
LOT OF THOUGHTS AND BE BACK AND
CONCERNS ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OVER THE
PAST FEW MONTHS AND ABOUT HOW
PEOPLE WOULD LIKE TO SEE ANN
ARBOR GROW IN THE FUTURE.
I THINK WE'VE GOT SOME REALLY
HELPFUL FEEDBACK.
SO THANK YOU TO EVERYONE WHO'S
PARTICIPATED FOR THAT.
AND I THINK WITH THIS SECOND
DRAFT WE HAVE MADE IT CLEAR
THAT WE'RE LISTENING TO THAT
FEEDBACK AS A MEMBER AND MY
GOAL HAS ALWAYS BEEN TO ENSURE
THAT THE CITY GROWS IN A WAY
THAT'S THOUGHTFUL AND INCLUSIVE
AND SERVES THE NEEDS OF CURRENT
AND POTENTIAL RESIDENTS AND WE
ARE HEARING YOU AND THE FACT IS
THIS PLAN IS PROBABLY NOT GOING
TO MAKE EVERYONE HAPPY.
>> I UNDERSTAND THE FEARS
CREATED BY THE IDEA
OF MULTISTORY APARTMENT
BUILDINGS LOCATED NEXT OR TO
LOW RISE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER EVANS
FOR ELOQUENTLY EXPLAINING STEP
X THIS PLAN DOES AIMED AT
MOREHOUSE IN SPITE OF THE CITY
SPECIFICALLY IN RESIDENTIAL
AREAS TO INTRODUCE SMALLER
UNITS WITHIN BUILDINGS THAT
RETAIN THE LARGE SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES WHICH COULD BE ATTAINABLE
FOR POPULATIONS LIKE YOUNG
FAMILIES OR RETIREES LOOKING TO
DOWNSIZE WHICH FEELS IMPOSSIBLE
RIGHT NOW THESE UNITS WOULD
ALLOW THESE NEW RESIDENTS TO
ENJOY THE BENEFITS OF SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS THINGS
THAT LIKE BACKYARD SPACE AND
ACCESS TO PARKS WITHOUT BEING
EXCLUDED DUE TO HIGH HOUSING
COSTS OR LARGE HOUSING SIZES
WITHOUT BEING FORCED TO THE
CORRIDORS IF THAT'S NOT WHERE
THEY CHOOSE TO LIVE, I FIRMLY
BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE WAYS TO
ADD DENSITY WITHOUT CHANGING
PERCEIVED AND REAL BENEFITS
OF SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I DO THINK THAT WE ALL AGREE
FUNDAMENTALLY ON MANY THINGS IN
THIS CITY AND I THINK WE ALL
LIKELY AGREE ON THE IMPORTANCE
OF MAINTAINING QUALITY PARKS
AND ENSURING THAT GROWTH DOES
NOT OUTPACE OUR PARK RESOURCES
AND THAT COMMONALITY THAT I
FEEL WE ALL SHARE HERE AT THE
TABLE ON COUNCIL AND IN THE
COMMUNITY WAS ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT I WAS DEEPLY
DISAPPOINTED BY A MEMO THAT WE
RECEIVED IN OUR PACKET AND THAT
I ALSO SAW CIRCULATED AROUND
SOCIAL MEDIA LAST FOCUS
SPECIFICALLY ON THAT FOR A
MINUTE THIS MEMO CRICKLEY
POINTED OUT THAT THE ANSWER
REPORT TO POPULATION RATIO IN
OUR PARKS RECREATION AND OPEN
SPACE PLAN THAT WAS ADOPTED A
FEW YEARS AGO.
THOSE PLAN IS HIGHER THAN THE
TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND PARK TO
POPULATION RATIO USED IN THE
COMPLAINT DRAFT TO ILLUSTRATE
10 MINUTE ACCESS TO HIGH
QUALITY PARKS IN ANN ARBOR AND
THE AREAS OF THE CITY THAT ARE
BLOCKING THIS ACCESS.
>> I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERN
OVER THE DEFENSE.
I'D LIKE MY PLAN TO ASK FOR
FURTHER CLARIFICATION IN THE
PLAN TO EXPLAIN THESE
DIFFERENCES.
I STOPPED AN EXCELLENT JOB
OUTLINING THOSE DIFFERENCES
LAST WEEK.
IT WAS THE TONE OF THAT MEMO
AND THE UNFOUNDED ACCUSATIONS
IT MADE THAT WERE ESPECIALLY
TROUBLING TO ME.
THE INTENT OF THAT MEMO WASN'T
TO HIGHLIGHT AND ASK FOR
CLARIFICATION ON A NUMBER
DIFFERENCE THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
A SIMPLE EMAIL TO STAFF ASKING
TO CLARIFY THE DIFFERENCES THE
LANGUAGE CHOSEN FOR THIS MEMO
AND THE WAY THAT IT WAS
DISTRIBUTED IS SERVING TO SOW
FEAR AND DISTRUST IN OUR CITY
LEADERS AND STAFF AND THE SAME
CAN BE SAID FOR THE RESPONSE
THAT I SAW TODAY.
I DON'T WANT TO GIVE AS MUCH
MORE ATTENTION AFTER TODAY BUT
ACCUSING PUBLIC OFFICIALS, CITY
STAFF AND VOLUNTEER RESIDENTS
OF DELIBERATELY MANIPULATING
DATA IS BOTH TRULY
REPREHENSIBLE AND UNPRODUCTIVE.
THE LANGUAGE OF THIS MEMO
INCLUDES THE MISSING PARKLAND
EVIDENCE OF DELIBERATE
NEGLIGENCE, COORDINATED
OFFICIAL OPPOSITION TO GOLF
COURSES AND SO MANY OTHER
MISLEADING STATEMENTS INCLUDING
CLAIMS THAT COUNCIL WAS TRYING
TO CIRCUMVENT THE CITY CHARTER
OF ALL THINGS, THIS LANGUAGE
WOULD MEAN THE AVERAGE CITIZEN
TO THINK VERY DIFFERENT AND
VARIOUS THINGS ABOUT COUNCIL
STAFF AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CHECKING QUOTES TO
CARRY A NARRATIVE OF DECEIT IS
A DISSERVICE TO THE FACTS AND A
PLANNING PROCESS AND THEY GET
IN THE WEEDS FOR A MINUTE.
>> BUT I USED TO WORK ON A TEN
MINUTE WALK CAMPAIGN WITH A
GLANCE I WAS PARTICULARLY
BOTHERED BY ALL THIS SO I'M
GOING TO GO IN THE WEEDS FOR A
MINUTE.
THE GROUP CLAIMED THAT THE CITY
DELIBERATELY CHOSE INCOMPLETE
DATA OVER THEIR OWN OFFICIAL
RECORDS AND CITATIONS THEY
BELIEVE JUSTIFIES THEIR
POSITION.
THEY SAY THAT OFFICIAL CITY
DATA HAS TWENTY TWO HUNDRED AND
TEN ACRES DOCUMENTED.
THEY'VE ACTUALLY ADDED UP OTHER
TOTAL ACREAGE NUMBERS IN THAT
SAME PLAN CLAIMS THE DATABASE
IS MISSING FOR ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY FOUR FIGURES THAT THE
CITY NEVER UPDATED.
THEY'VE ONLY MADE A MINOR
ADJUSTMENT TO THREE PARKS AND
PEOPLES OWN DOCUMENTATION
REQUIRED CITIES TO MAINTAIN
ACCURATE DATA.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR HERE CITIES
ARE NOT REQUIRED TO UPDATE
PARKS OR CITIES AND CERTAINLY
CHOOSE TO UPDATE DATA WITH
STAFF IF THEY HAVE THE CAPACITY
TO MANY PARKS DEPARTMENT TO DO
NOT.
BUT NOTHING REQUIRES THEM TO DO
SO.
THE TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND IS A
NATIONAL NONPROFIT PARK SERVICE
A NATIONAL DATABASE.
THE OBJECTIVE OF PARK SERVICE
IS TO GUIDE CITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY TOWARDS MEETING THE
GOAL OF THE TEN MINUTE LONG
CAMPAIGN WHICH IS TO ENSURE
THAT ALL PEOPLE HAVE EQUITABLE
ACCESS TO A HIGH QUALITY PARK
WITHIN A TEN MINUTE WALK
OF HOME.
IT'S TO HELP CITIES IDENTIFY
AREAS IN THEIR CITIES THAT
MIGHT NEED ADDITIONAL
INVESTMENT IN QUALITY PARKS.
IT MIGHT NOT HAVE AREA PARK
IDENTIFIED AND WELL IT DOES ASK
CITIES TO SUBMIT UPDATES.
MANY PARKS DEPARTMENTS AS I
SAID, DO NOT HAVE THIS TYPE
OF CAPACITY.
PARKS DOESN'T COUNT THINGS THAT
ARE MORE COMMUNITY ORIENTED
LIKE LESLIE SCIENCE CENTER AND
A SENIOR CENTER AND COMMUNITY
CENTER FAIRVIEW CEMETERY, THE
FARMER'S MARKET CAMPUS MET-PRO
MUSEUM I MEAN ALL OF THESE ARE
COUNTED IN THE CITIES ACREAGE
NUMBERS AS THESE ARE CITY ON
PROPERTIES.
THESE AREN'T THE TYPES
OF PUBLIC SPACES THAT FIT INTO
TIBBLES DEFINITION OF HIGH
QUALITY PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE
PARK AND THE TWO GOLF COURSES
AS EXPLAINED IN STAFFS MEMO
THERE IS NO CONSPIRACY HERE AND
NO ONE IS SECRETLY WORKING ON
SELLING OFF PUBLIC LAND.
I APPLAUD THE CONSULTANTS
DECISION TO USE PARK SERVICE
MEMBERS IN THEIR ANALYSIS,
PARTICULARLY IF THEY'RE USING
PARK SERVICE PARKS TO
POPULATION RATIO NUMBER FOUR
ORDER TO COMPARE US TO PARK
SERVICE AVERAGE NUMBER
NATIONALLY WE ARE BERRY PARK
RIDGE CITY AND WE SHOULD ALL BE
VERY PROUD OF THAT.
I ALSO REALLY APPRECIATE THE
WORK OF THE IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION DECLARED BY THE
EGREGIOUS CLAIMS OF THE MEMO
PARTICULARLY WHEN THEIR TIME
COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER SPENT ON
MORE PRODUCTIVE WORK.
THEIR CLARIFICATION WAS
ACCURATE AND TRUTHFUL AND
CLAIMS TO THE CONTRARY ARE
AGAIN WRONG AND CONSPIRATORIAL
.
ULTIMATELY, IF SOME ARE
UNWILLING TO GAUGE IN GOOD
FAITH IN A CONSTRUCTIVE
COLLABORATIVE PROCESS AND
RATHER RESORT TO ACCUSATIONS
AND NAME CALLING IT MAKE
FINDING COMMON GROUND REALLY
DIFFICULT.
BUT I REMAIN COMMITTED TO
MOVING FORWARD THE MAN THAT
EXPOUNDS ON THE SHARED VALUES
AND YES I ALSO THE VALUES
OF HOUSING PRODUCTION, EQUITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY AND SETS US
UP TO MAKE ANN ARBOR A
WELCOMING PLACE FOR ALL YOU
RIGHT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY ELSE THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADD THEIR
COMMENTS?
>> NORDON YES, COMMISSIONER.
>> JUST A QUICK THING THAT I
MADE A NOTE OF BUT DIDN'T BRING
UP IN MY FIRST RESPONSE, WHICH
IS THERE WAS A CLAIM THAT THOSE
OF US WHO LIVE HERE LONGER ARE
SUBSIDIZING THOSE WHO HAVE JUST
ARRIVED AND THAT'S NOT QUITE
TRUE IN TERMS OF TAXES BECAUSE
MOST NEW DEVELOPMENTS ARE TAXED
AT AN UNCAPPED RATE AND I WANT
TO REMIND EVERYONE THAT RENTERS
PAY TAXES.
THEY OFTEN PAY MORE IN TAXES
THAN THOSE OF US WHO OWN SINGLE
FAMILY DETACHED DWELLINGS.
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO ADD
TO COUNCIL MEMBERS DISH COMMENT
ABOUT BEEKMAN BECAUSE THE
ORANGE MARKET IS ACTUALLY IN
THE BEEKMAN DEVELOPMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS THE
ONLY THING I'LL SAY IS THAT FOR
EVERYBODY THAT ATTENDED TONIGHT
AND SPOKE THANK YOU THAT THAT
IS WHAT CIVIC ENGAGEMENT IS
LIKE AND IT TAKES A LOT
OF COURAGE AND BRAVERY TO SPEAK
IN PUBLIC.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN AND I
CONTINUE TO ENCOURAGE THAT WITH
THAT WE ARE GOING TO THE NEXT
ITEM WHICH IS THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING WILL GO TO
DEPUTY MANAGER KELLEY AS I
MENTIONED EARLIER DURING THE
MONITOR REPORT, THERE ARE NO
PUBLIC HEARINGS SUCH SCHEDULED.
HOWEVER, WE WILL BE HAVING A
VOTING SESSION FOR YOUR ANNUAL
ITEMS FROM YOUR BYLAWS
INCLUDING THE BYLAWS REVIEW
SECTION OF OFFICERS AND YOUR
WORK PROGRAM AND AS NEEDED
THERE WILL BE MORE SPACE FOR
DRAFT TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
DISCUSSION.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WHICH THERE
ARE NONE.
SO LET ME JUST DO A QUICK CHECK
BEFORE WE MOVE ON TO REGULAR
BUSINESS.
>> YOU GUYS GET TO TAKE A THREE
MINUTE BREAK, OK?
GOING TO TAKE A THREE MINUTE
BREAK.
WE'LL BE BACK AT EIGHT TWELVE
WITH REGULAR BUSINESS.
THANK
THANK YOU FOR COMING
RIGHT.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
I'M GOING TO CALL THE SESSION
BACK AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
PATIENCE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO GO
ON TO NINE A REGULAR BUSINESS.
THIS IS NINE HUNDRED BRIARWOOD
CIRCLE SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION PROVAL THIS IS A
REVISION OF THE PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED SITE PLAN HESP TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO FIVE
FOR THE LARGE FORMAT RETAILER
REDUCTION OF THE BUILDING SIZE
FROM ONE ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT TO LEVEL BUILDING
TO A 60000 SQUARE FOOT ONE
LEVEL BUILDING WITH AN ADJACENT
FIFTEEN THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED
EIGHTY SQUARE FOOT SMALL RETAIL
BUILDINGS.
NO CHANGES, NO OTHER CHANGES TO
THE SITE ARE PROPOSED AND THE
ZONING IS TO BE BUSINESS
SERVICE DISTRICT WARD FOR STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS PROVEN.
>> WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE ON TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS JOHN PHIPPS.
I'M WITH SIMON PROPERTY GROUP.
I WOULD ADD PROUD CORPORATE
CITIZEN OF ANN ARBOR ALONG WITH
OUR PREDECESSOR FOR FIFTY YEARS
NOW SO WE BEFORE I GET INTO THE
PRESENTATION WE WOULD LIKE TO
ADD OUR CONGRATULATIONS TO MATT
FOR MOVING ON TO HIS NEXT
CHAPTER AND HE'S REALLY HELPED
US THROUGH THE PROCESS.
WE CAME HERE FIRST DECEMBER
OF 2003 TO GET OUR SITE PLAN
APPROVED.
ON A PERSONAL NOTE I'M A LITTLE
IRRITATED THAT HE'S RETIRING
BEFORE ME BUT THAT'S THAT'S THE
WAY IT GOES.
SO WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO IS GIVE
YOU JUST KIND OF GIVE YOU A
STATUS UPDATE, SHOW YOU WHERE
WE ARE AND THEN TALK ABOUT OUR
OUR AMENDMENT.
WE ALL KNOW WHERE BRIARWOOD IS
.
IF YOU'LL RECALL WHEN WE GOT
OUR SITE PLAN APPROVED WE KIND
OF BROKE THE SITE AND THE
DEVELOPMENT SITE TO TWO
DIFFERENT SECTIONS SITE A WHICH
WAS THE RETAIL AND SITE B WHICH
WAS THE RESIDENTIAL.
SO WHERE WE ARE NOW SINCE WE
GOT THE PLAN APPROVED, I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU'VE DRIVEN BY THE
SITE BUT THE RESIDENT
RESIDENCES ARE WELL UNDERWAY.
THEY'RE THEY'RE BUILDING I
THINK NOW THEY'VE THEY'VE BUILT
UP SOME OF THE ACTUAL
APARTMENTS UP TO FOUR LEVELS ON
PART OF IT.
SO THEY'RE MOVING AHEAD.
I BELIEVE THE FIRST UNITS WILL
BE DELIVERED FOR OCCUPANCY IN
JULY OF NEXT YEAR.
>> HARVEST MARKET THE GROCERY
IS UNDER ROOF AND THEY ARE
GOING TO THE PLANNING AND
OPENING IN MARCH OF NEXT YEAR.
WHEN WE WERE HERE BEFORE WE
COULDN'T SAY A LARGE FORMAT
RETAILER WAS DICK'S SPORTING
GOODS BUT ANYONE WITH EYES
COULD TELL IT WAS I'M SURPRISED
WE DIDN'T GET THAT QUESTION BUT
NONETHELESS IT'S GOING TO BE
DICK'S.
WE'RE VERY HAPPY ABOUT THAT AND
WE'RE GOING TO DELIVER PAD TO
THEM IN SEPTEMBER.
THEN THEY'LL OPEN TWELVE MONTHS
LATER IN SEPTEMBER OF TWENTY
SIX AND OUR GREENSPACE OUR
PLAZA WE'RE STARTING THE SMALL
VESTIBULE RIGHT NOW AND WE PLAN
ON HAVING THAT OUTDOOR SPACE
COMPLETED BY SEPTEMBER THIS
YEAR.
SO REALLY THE CHANGE WE'RE HERE
TO TALK ABOUT IS THE THE DICK'S
BUILDING ITSELF WHEN WE CAME IN
DICK'S WAS PLANNING ON DOING
THE FIRST TIME DICK'S WAS
PLANNING ON DOING A TWO LEVEL
HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
DICK'S HOUSE SPORTS WITH A
OUTDOOR SPORTS COURT.
THEY ULTIMATELY DECIDED TO GO
WITH A ONE LEVEL 60000 SQUARE
FOOT DICK'S SPORTING GOODS SAME
PRODUCT JUST A LITTLE DIFFERENT
FORMAT, A LITTLE BIT SMALLER.
WE ACTUALLY GO DOWN IN THE
RETAIL SPACE BY TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE THOUSAND FEET FROM WHAT WE
HAD PREVIOUSLY BECAUSE THE
FOOTPRINTS GETTING THE
FOOTPRINTS GETTING A LITTLE
SMALL, SMALLER IT AFFORDS US
THE ABILITY TO DO SOME ADJACENT
SMALL SHOPS.
SO WE'VE WE'VE COME BACK AND
THAT'S THAT'S PART OF WHAT WE
WANT TO DO HERE TONIGHT IS GET
THAT APPROVED AS WELL.
SO THIS SLIDE HERE WHAT WE GOT
APPROVED PREVIOUSLY IS ON THE
LEFT AND THEN WHAT WE'RE
PROPOSING ON THE RIGHT YOU CAN
SEE IT'S PRETTY MUCH THE SAME
OTHER THAN THE DICK'S KAPONE
WHAT WE GOT APPROVED BEFORE AS
FAR AS ELEVATIONS AGAIN RETAIL
BUT IT WAS OBVIOUS WHAT IT WAS
AND WITH THE SPORT COURT WHICH
IS THE YOU THIS FENCING HERE
WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO DO NOW IS
THEY'VE ACTUALLY THEY'VE
REFINED THEIR DESIGN MORE AND
IT'S JUST IT LOOKS LIKE A
DICK'S ONE THING THEY ARE DOING
THIS ELEVATION HERE TOWARD THE
PLAZA.
THEY'RE KIND OF THEY HAVE SOME
SIGNAGE THERE.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO CONNECT ON
TO THE PLAZA WITH AN ENTRANCE
BUT THEY'LL HAVE THIS THIS YOU
KNOW, THEY'RE WICKETT HERE SO
BASICALLY SAY MATERIALS BUT
THAT'S WHERE THEY'RE AT NOW THE
THE SMALL SHOPS WE'VE COME UP
WITH, YOU KNOW, A GENERIC
FACADE THAT WE BELIEVE THAT,
YOU KNOW, TENANTS CAN COME IN
AND GET SIGN PERMITS FOR AND
THEY CAN PLUG AND PLAY.
SO THAT'S BASICALLY WHAT THIS
IS.
SORRY.
AND THEN THIS IS THIS IS
ANOTHER JUST ANOTHER VIEW OF IT
AND THEN WE INCLUDED AN UPDATED
RENDERING OF OUR PLAZA.
WE ADVANCE THAT DESIGN.
SO THIS IS LOOKING TOWARDS IDEX
THE FACADE HERE THAT WE'RE
SHOWING PREDICTS THE RENDERING
DIDN'T QUITE KEEP PACE WITH
THEIR DESIGN SO THAT BASICALLY
YOU'LL SEE THE DICK'S WALL AND
THEN YOU CAN SEE BACK HERE THE
MALL ENTRANCE.
SO THIS IS GOING TO BE A REALLY
COOL ACTIVATED SPACE HARVEST
MARKETS GOING THEY HAVE OUTDOOR
SEATING HERE.
THEY'VE GOT AN OUTDOOR
FIREPLACE AND A LITTLE STAGE SO
THAT'LL BE COOL.
SO YEAH, THAT'S WHERE WE'RE AT
AND THIS IS A DIFFERENT ANGLE
LOOKING OUT TOWARDS THE RING
ROAD.
SO REALLY THAT'S THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE ABOUT A COUPLE OF JUST
UPDATED SLIDES.
THIS SHOWS THE RESIDENTIAL
WHERE WE ARE WITH THAT IN THE
FOREGROUND HERE THE FIRST
BUILDING AND THEN THIS IS
HARVEST MARKET OVER HERE AND
THIS IS THE THE ROAD WE'RE
PUTTING IN IN BETWEEN MIGHT ADD
THAT ALL THE PUBLIC UTILITIES
MAINS ARE IN AND THE EASEMENTS
ARE DEVELOPED.
THE EASEMENTS HAVE BEEN DRAFTED
IN THERE WITH ACTUALLY WITH THE
CITY NOW.
SO EVERYTHING'S GOOD THERE.
>> THIS IS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT VIEW OF THE
APARTMENTS.
THIS STRUCTURE HERE IS THE
PARKING DECK AND UNITS WILL
WRAP THAT PARKING DECK IF
YOU'LL RECALL SO YOU WON'T SEE
IT.
AND THEN THE HERE'S HARVEST
MARKET SO THEY'RE WELL
UNDERWAY.
THAT'S THAT'S IT.
>> GOT TO THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR THE UPDATE WITH THAT WE'RE
GOING TO GO ON TO
STAFF
PRESENTATION WITH PLANER
KAWALSKY.
>> THANK YOU.
I HAVE A LOT TO ADD OR DID A
GOOD JOB OF GOING THROUGH THE
SUMMARY OF THE CHANGES AND AS I
SAID, REALLY THE ONLY CHANGES
TO THE DICK'S SPORTING GOODS,
THE RETAIL PART PORTION OF THAT
THE REDUCTION OF THAT SPACE
HOWEVER YOU WANT TO SITE PLAN
FOR REVIEW BY STAFF.
>> SO IT DID GO THROUGH THE
FULL STAFF REVIEW AGAIN.
SO WE MADE SURE EVERYTHING IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE CODE AS
APPROVED PREVIOUSLY THERE WERE
NO CHANGES PROPOSED OR APPROVED
AS FAR AS ANY OF THE
CIRCULATION PARKING.
IT WAS LITERALLY JUST KIND
OF SWAPPING BUILDING PADS.
THERE WERE SOME ADJUSTMENT TO
THE SOLID WASTE AREA IN THE
REAR THAT'S BEEN REVIEWED AND
APPROVED BY OUR SE COORDINATOR
AND THERE ARE NO CHANGES
REQUIRED IN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT IN THIS ONE.
SO EVERYTHING THAT WAS IS
BEFORE YOU TONIGHT IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE APPROVED
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND I WAS
GOING TO MENTION UTILITIES BUT
THEY ALSO MENTIONED THAT THE
UTILITIES RIGHT.
ARE ALL CONSTRUCTED OBVIOUSLY
AND THEY'RE THEY'RE GOING FULLY
VERTICAL AS WAS INDICATED.
SO THEY'RE MAKING GOOD PROGRESS
ON THAT AND REALLY THAT'S ALL I
HAVE TO ADD.
SO STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL AND THIS IS A PLANNING
SORRY THIS IS A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
OBVIOUSLY NOT GO PAST YOU GOT
IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON A PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON THIS
PARTICULAR ITEM.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE HAND
FEATURE ZOOME FOR PHONE ACCESS
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR
SEVEN INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE IS
THE PHONE NUMBER OR NAME ON
ZOOME YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT AND IT'S YOUR TURN
TO SPEAK AND PLEASE ENSURE THAT
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS THE BEGINNING
OF THE COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
MR. GOVERNOR.
THANK YOU CERVI CAN AABERG IN
TWENTY EIGHT HAVE A HOMECOURT?
I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT THIS
PROJECT BEFORE I POSE MY
QUESTION LET ME REMIND YOU JUST
HOW EXCELLENT THE RESIDENTIAL
PORTION OF THIS PROJECT IS FROM
THE SUSTAINABILITY POINT
OF VIEW PASSIVE BIO-FUEL FELIC
DESIGN ADVANCED HIGH
PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS PURSUE THE
CERTIFICATION ALL ELECTRIC LOW
CARBON DESIGN ET CETERA ET
DAYLIGHTING ALL ELECTRIC
COOKING APPLIANCES, DOMESTIC
HOT WATER STRATEGIES THAT
REDUCE EMBODIED CARBON AND
OTHER GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
ASSOCIATED WITH BUILDING
MATERIALS, RECYCLED STEEL WOOD
FROM WELL MANAGED FORESTS.
I MEAN THEY REALLY CAME UP WITH
SOME THINGS I NEVER THOUGHT
ABOUT SO FANTASTIC RESIDENTIAL
PROJECT BUT I DON'T THINK WAS
EVER EXPLAINED THE FIRST TIME
AROUND WHY THE COMMERCIAL
PORTION OF THIS SPORTING GOODS
STORE THE GROCERY BASICALLY
HAVE NOTHING TO SAY ON
SUSTAINABILITY EXCEPT BICYCLE
PARKING AND EV CHARGING WHICH
IS REQUIRED ANYWAY THAT I
REMEMBER AND AS I UNDERSTAND
THEY'LL BE USING GAS HEAT SO
IT'S A SCHIZOPHRENIC
DEVELOPMENT TO ME FROM THE
SUSTAINABILITY POINT OF VIEW
THIS REALLY DOESN'T HAVE
BEARING ON YOUR APPROVAL
DECISION TONIGHT BUT IF YOU'RE
INTERESTED AT ALL IN AN
EXPLANATION, MAYBE ONE THIS ONE
MIGHT BE AN OPPORTUNITY MAYBE
WE CAN LEARN SOMETHING ABOUT
HOW SIMON GROUP APPROACHES
COMMERCIAL VERSUS RESIDENTIAL,
HOW THEY THINK ABOUT IT OR
MAYBE THIS IS A DTG CAPACITY
ISSUE DOWN THERE.
I JUST DON'T KNOW.
THAT'S MY QUESTION.
>> SO THANKS FOR FOR
CONSIDERING THAT.
THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD COMMENT ON THIS ITEM
?
SEE SEEING NONE DO WE HAVE ANY
REMOTE CALLERS OK WITH THREE
MORE SECONDS?
>> OK WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO GO INTO THE
PROPOSED MOTION THE ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE NINE HUNDRED
BRIARWOOD SITE PLAN VERSION
FIVE DATED MAY TWENTY SEVENTH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WEIS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
>> WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US
OFF COMMISERATES WITH A
PETITION?
I'D LIKE TO ANSWER MR. GARBER'S
QUESTION.
>> I DON'T REALLY HAVE A GOOD
ANSWER FOR HIM OTHER THAN WE
BASICALLY FOR BOTH AND THE
GROCERY STORE WE ARE GROUND
LEASING TO THEM.
SO THEY'RE BUILDING THEIR
VERTICALS, YOU KNOW, FROM THE
GROUND UP AND ANY TYPE OF I
GUESS MANY SUSTAINABILITY MAY
HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED WHEN THEY,
YOU KNOW, SUBMITTED FOR THEIR
PERMITS.
BUT SO WE YOU KNOW, IN THIS
INSTANCE IT WAS GROUND LEASES.
SO THAT'S HOW WE GOT THANK YOU.
YES.
MR. KAWALSKY.
SO DOES DICK'S PRESENT A
BUILDING PLAN TO YOU?
>> THEY HAVE A PERMIT UNDER
REVIEW NOW BUT I HAVE NOT
APPROVED IT.
SO WHO CAN ANSWER MR. GARBER'S
QUESTION?
WELL, ABOUT THE WHY THEY DIDN'T
I CAN'T GO TO THAT QUESTION.
I THINK THE BEST ANSWER WAS
FROM THE DEVELOPER.
I MEAN I HAVEN'T LOOKED AT IT
YET BUT AS INDICATED I DON'T
THINK THAT IT'S ALL SO I THINK
HIS QUESTION WAS WHAT IS
SIMON'S DEVELOPMENT GROUP'S
POSTURE TOWARDS COMMERCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY WHICH I THINK
DOESN'T NECESSARILY EXTEND
DIRECTLY TO DICK'S.
I THINK YOU MIGHT HAVE AN
ANSWER MAYBE YOUR ANSWER IS YOU
HAVE NO I JUST WANT YOU TO
ANSWER I DON'T WANT TO ANSWER
FOR YOU AND YOU NEED TO DO IT.
MIKE SORRY.
I AT THE MIKE SORRY YOU GOT TO
GET TO THE MIKE.
I HAVE NO ANSWER RIGHT NOW.
I MEAN WE WE DO HAVE
SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES.
WE'RE A PUBLIC COMPANY SO THOSE
ARE PROBABLY PUBLIC BUT THAT'S
YOU KNOW, THAT'S THAT'S ONLY
ANSWER I HAVE RIGHT NOW.
>> I'M NOT SO NO ANSWER YOU
HAVE NO YEAH NO I'M NOT
DIRECTLY FOR YOUR
SUSTAINABILITY OR COMMERCIAL.
YEAH OK.
>> WE HAVE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
THAT WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
OH SO THIS IS FOR STAFF FOR
THEIR WHEN WHEN WE FIRST
CONSIDERED THIS AND I'M PRETTY
SURE I REMEMBER THIS CORRECTLY
BUT JUST TO CONFIRM WE DIDN'T
LOOK AT THAT FIELD AS ANYTHING
PUBLIC OR IT WAS PART OF THE
BUILDING.
WE WEREN'T LOOKING AT IT AS AN
AMENITY OR ANYTHING THAT THAT
WAS KIND OF PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE.
THAT'S BECAUSE IT WAS ALWAYS
SHOWN IS FENCED IN COMPLETELY
AND ALMOST LIKE A TWO STOREY
FENCE AND CAGE AROUND IT.
SO YEAH, WE NEVER CONSIDERED
THAT IT WAS VERY CLEAR THAT IT
WAS PART OF THE DICK'S SPORTING
OR THE SPORTING GOODS STORE AT
THAT TIME.
YES.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS?
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT HAS
BEEN PRESENTED THANK YOU FOR
YOUR PATIENCE TONIGHT ALL
OF YOU PETITIONS THAT ARE HERE
I'M SORRY THAT I PUBLIC I
REFERRED TO IN SUITS ACCUSED
OF BEING GREEDY DEVELOPERS
DEVELOPMENT IS REALLY
CHALLENGING RIGHT NOW.
>> SO I KNOW YOU'RE NOT JUST
SKATING THROUGH ALL OF THIS AND
MAKING MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
WITHOUT BLINKING A NICE THANK
YOU FOR WHAT YOU'RE DOING TO
IMPROVE THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT.
NO.
VERY QUICK QUESTION A BIT ON
THE BUILDING AND MAYBE YOU
CAN'T ANSWER THIS EITHER
BECAUSE NOW WE WE SORT OF KNOW
IT'S UP TO THEIR PLANS BUT IT'S
NOT GOING TO CONNECT ON THE BUT
IT WILL HAVE A WICKETT IS WHAT
YOU CALLED DO YOU THINK IN THE
FUTURE THEY MIGHT LIKE THAT
WOULD BE A REALLY COOL THING TO
LIKE HAVE THAT ACCESS POINT
SORT OF UP TO THEM?
>> I MEAN THAT WAS OUR
PREFERENCE JUST THE WAY THEIR
STORE LAYS OUT BECAUSE THE ONE
THING THAT DIDN'T CHANGE
BETWEEN THE THE ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT TWO LEVEL
AND THE SIXTY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET ONE LEVEL WHICH THE
PROCEEDING WITH WAS THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE AN
ENTRANCE ONTO THE MALL INSIDE
THE MALL SO IT'S GOING TO
ANCHOR IT EITHER WAY AND WE TO
HAVE ANOTHER ENTRANCE RIGHT
THERE AT THE CORNER WAS IS
PRETTY DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO
MAKE SENSE AND AT THAT
RENDERING OF THE PLAZA LOOKS
BEAUTIFUL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
AND ONE MORE QUESTION WHO OWNS
THE RETAIL BUTTON?
SO DICK'S IN THE GROCERY STORE
GROUND PLACES ASSIGNMENT ON THE
RETAIL WELL ON THE RETAIL
CORRECT.
WOULD YOU CONSIDER DOING THINGS
LIKE SOLAR ALL ELECTRIC FOR
THAT COMPONENT?
>> I MEAN WE WOULD TAKE IT
UNDER CONSIDERATION.
>> I'LL ASK THAT YOU TAKE IT
THANK YOU.
UNDER CONSIDERATION.
ALSO ON THE SUITS COMMENT I'D
THANK YOU.
JUST LIKE TO KNOW I OWN ONE
ALSO ON THE SUITS COMMENT I'D
SPORTCOAT.
JUST LIKE TO KNOW I OWN ONE
THIS IS IT.
SPORTCOAT.
AND THESE ARE TERRINES SO
ANY
OTHER COMMISSIONERS' OK WITH
THAT I'LL JUST NOTE AGAIN THIS
IS CONVERTING ONE THOUSAND
THIRTY THREE PARKING
AUTOMOBILE'S SPACES INTO THREE
HUNDRED PLUS UNITS OF HOUSING
PLUS GREAT GROCERY STORE.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO HARVEST
ENTERING THE MARKET WITH THAT
WE WILL GO TO A ROLL CALL VOTE
AGAIN.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION.
THIS IS ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE NINE
HUNDRED BRIARWOOD SITE PLAN
VERSION FIVE DATED MAY TWENTY
SEVEN POINT TWENTY FIVE STAFF
ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
COUNCIL ONE BRITISH YES.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY YES.
AND COMMISSIONER NORTON YES.
THAT CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
MOTION PASSES THE INNER CITY
PLANNING COMMISSIONER
DISCIPLINE.
GOOD LUCK WITH THE REST
OF CONSTRUCTION
.
OK, THAT TAKES US TO THE NEXT
REGULAR BUSINESS.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS TWELVE S UNIVERSITY S P
TWO FOUR ZERO ZERO TWO NINE.
SO I PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS AN UPDATE TO THE
ORIGINAL SITE PLAN THAT
INCORPORATES THE ADJACENT
PARCEL LOCATED AT 610 SOUTH
FLORISSANT AVENUE.
THE PROJECT WILL BE AN EIGHTEEN
STOREY MIXED USE THE RUSSY
RESIDENTIAL AND RETAIL TOWER.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CONSISTS OF TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
NINE RENTAL APARTMENTS AND
FIFTY ONE HUNDRED TWENTY SQUARE
FEET OF GROUND LEVEL COMMERCIAL
TENANT SPACE.
THE BUILDING INCORPORATES THE
STORAGE FOR FIFTY TWO BIKES, A
EIGHTY THREE GARAGE PARKING
SPACES, PARKING AND LOADING,
HAVING SEALED OFF THE SOUTH
ALLEY THIS IS ZONED D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT WARD
THREE WITH A S THE UNIVERSITY
OVERLAY DISTRICT TO THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL THAT
WE WILL GO TO PETITIONERS ERIC
LEITH FROM LAMARQUE PROPERTIES
THAT JOHN MAJEWSKI FROM
MILEVSKY ARCHITECTS.
THIS IS SIMILARLY AN AMENDMENT
TO AN ALREADY APPROVED SITE
PLAN WHERE THIS IS THE
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SITE PLAN
AND THEN THIS IS THE CURRENTLY
PROPOSED ONE.
ESSENTIALLY WE HAVE ACQUIRED AN
ADDITIONAL PARCEL ADJACENT TO
OUR ALREADY APPROVED SITE
PLANNING OR AMENDING THE SITE
PLAN TO INCLUDE THAT PARCEL WE
TURNED OVER TO JOHN, THANK YOU.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, JOHN
MAJEWSKI.
I'LL JUST WALK YOU THROUGH THIS
AND I'LL TRY TO BE BRIEF BUT
YOU CAN SEE THE PART THAT IS
ADDED ON STICKING OUT RIGHT
ADJACENT TO THE PLAZA AND RIGHT
NEXT TO FOREST.
THE BIG DIFFERENCES COME WHEN
YOU TALK ABOUT WHAT HAS BEEN
CHANGED GROWTH SQUARE FOOTAGE
WENT UP SUBSTANTIAL.
THE F.R. WENT UP FROM ONE POINT
TO EIGHT TO ONE POINT THREE
THREE.
THE NUMBER OF BEDS WENT FROM
SEVEN SIXTEEN TO NINE HUNDRED
NINETY ONE AND THE NUMBER
OF UNITS WENT FROM ONE EIGHTY
SIX UP TO TO FIFTY NINE.
THERE WERE SIXTEEN UNITS ON
THAT SITE AND SO IT'S A
SUBSTANTIAL INCREASE FROM JUST
THAT ONE PIECE OF PARCEL.
NOT THAT MANY MORE PARKING
SPACES WERE ADDED BUT THE
THERE'S A LARGE NUMBER
OF PARKING SPACES WHICH ARE
JUST REQUIRED BY THE RULES.
THE PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
BUILDING ITSELF HAS CHANGED
SUDDENLY VERY LITTLE ON THIS
SIDE BUT FROM A MATERIAL
PERSPECTIVE IT'S CHANGED QUITE
A BIT.
WE WERE ASKED IF WE WOULD
CONSIDER CHANGING THE BALCONIES
FROM THE RUDD RUST TERRACOTTA
COLOR TO A BLACK.
WE ACTUALLY WENT A LITTLE STEP
FURTHER AND WE REMOVED
BALCONIES ON THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING AND WE MADE THEM BOX
BAY WINDOWS TO BE SIMILAR TO
THE CORNER.
THE CLIENT WAS ALSO WILLING TO
TAKE THE F-STOP PANELS WHICH
WERE SUBSTANTIAL MATERIAL AND
AT THE TIME WE'RE KIND
OF QUESTION BY DESIGN REVIEW
BUT WHAT WAS APPROVED AND WE'VE
CHANGED THOSE TO METAL PANELS
SO THAT'S A SUBSTANTIAL
INCREASE IN COST AND ONE WE'RE
VERY EXCITED THAT WE'RE ABLE TO
GET SO THERE IS MORE SNOW IF
IT'S ON THE BUILDING.
THIS IS THE NEW BUILDING.
SO IF YOU COULD SEE THE TWO
LOCATIONS IN THE FRONT WHERE
THOSE THOSE TWO TALL SKINNY
ELEMENTS THAT WERE BALCONIES
THOSE ARE NOW JUST THE BOX BAY
WINDOW GLASS ELEMENTS SIMILAR
TO THE WINDOW WALL THAT WE HAVE
ON THE CORNER THERE ARE TWO
BALCONIES THAT WE'LL SEE AND
SOME OTHER PICTURES AND THOSE
HAVE GONE TO BE BLACK.
THE PART THAT STICKS OUT IS ON
THE LOWER RIGHT HAND CORNER.
YOU CAN SEE THAT'S JUTTING OUT
ALL THE WAY TO FOREST AND THAT
BASICALLY HAS A TWO STOREY
FITNESS ELEMENT FOR THEIR USE
ON THAT AND NOW IT IS ADJACENT
TO WHAT WE'RE REALLY REFERRING
TO IS THE PLAZA PARK WHICH IS
MORE OR LESS A TRANSFORMER PARK
BUT WE'RE WORKING ON THAT AND
WE ARE WORKING WITH THE D.A.
I'LL LET EVERYBODY KNOW IF
YOU'RE NOT AWARE WE'RE WORKING
WITH THE DENHA AND THE CITY TO
IMPROVE THAT SUBSTANTIALLY.
WE'RE JUST NOT THERE YET TO
TELL YOU WHAT THAT'S GOING TO
BE.
IT IS GOING TO INCLUDE THE
TRANSFORMERS WE KNOW WE CAN'T
GET RID OF THE TRANSFORMERS.
WE JUST HAVE TO FIGURE A WAY TO
TRY TO BRING THEM INTO THE PARK
ITSELF.
YOU WILL SEE LATER WE'VE MOVED
THE MURAL FROM SKINNIER WALL
WHICH IS NEXT TO THE TRASH AREA
TRANSFORMERS AND AND WE MOVED
IT TO ONE OF THE LONGWALLS.
SO NOW IT LOOKS OVER THE PARK
AREA.
YOU SEE THAT WHEN YOU GET TO
THE RENDERINGS.
NOT A LOT OF DIFFERENCE HERE
EXCEPT WHAT YOU SEE ON THE
LOWER RIGHT.
SOME OF THE RETAILERS WERE
SLIGHTLY INCREASED.
WE WERE ASKED TO TRY TO
MAXIMIZE THAT AS MUCH AS WE
COULD.
PARKING'S VERY MUCH THE SAME.
IT JUST ADDED THOSE FEW NUMBER
OF SPACES.
WHAT WE GET IS THIS WING THAT
STICKS OUT NOW ON THE BUILDING
TO THE RIGHT ALL THE WAY TO
FOREST IF WE MOVE UP THE
BUILDING IT'S PRETTY MUCH THE
SAME WHEN WE GET TO THE TOP
THAT'S WHERE THERE'S REALLY THE
BIGGEST DIFFERENCE.
THIS IS THE PREVIOUS APPROVED
ROOF WITH OUR OUTDOOR AMENITY.
NOW YOU CAN SEE THE OUTDOOR
AMENITY IS THE SAME.
THE PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SOLAR
IS WHERE IT WAS LOCATED BEFORE
BUT NOW THIS PART OF THE ROOF
THAT WE'RE ADDING IS ALL THE
NEW SOLAR.
IT'S ACTUALLY BEEN ABLE TO MEET
THE REQUIREMENTS FOR SOLAR
WHICH IS REALLY HARD TO DO TO
DO THIS.
WE'VE ACTUALLY HAD TO PUT SOME
VERTICAL PANELS.
OUR PANELS ARE LIFTED UP ON
IRAQ STORAGE SYSTEM AND ON PART
OF THE WALLS JUST TO MEET IT.
WE HAVE TO PUT SOME VERTICAL
PANELS ON THERE BUT WE WILL
MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OR THE
PERCENTAGES.
WE'RE STILL WORKING WITH THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT TO SEE IF
THERE'S SOME WAYS TO EVEN
MAXIMIZE THAT MORE.
THESE ARE JUST A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT VIEWS LOOKING AT
THE BUILDING ITSELF, HERE'S THE
ONE THAT WE KIND OF JUST
BRIEFLY TALKED ABOUT BEFORE
THIS THE LOWER PART IS VERY
MUCH THE SAME EXCEPT YOU CAN
SEE THOSE TWO AREAS WHERE THE
TALL BOX BAY WINDOW ELEMENTS GO
VERTICAL.
THAT'S REALLY THE ONLY
DIFFERENCE.
THIS NOW SHOWS YOU THE BACK
SIDE OF THE FOREST PARK ELEMENT
PART FOREST AVENUE PART THAT IS
STICKING OUT AND THIS SHOWS US
THE OTHER SIDE YOU CAN SEE IN
THE LOWER PART WHERE IT SAYS
MURAL ART.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE GOING TO WORK
WITH ARTS COMMISSION JUST LIKE
WE DID ON THE STANDARD TO FIND
AN ARTIST TO DO THAT.
BUT IT'S A MUCH LARGER MURAL,
PROBABLY ABOUT SIXTY PERCENT
LARGER AND THAT'S THE ONLY
PLACE THAT MADE SENSE BECAUSE
OUR RETAIL ELEMENT WHICH IS
ACTUALLY OUR FITNESS CENTER
DOES WRAP AROUND AND KIND
OF ENGAGES PARK AND WOULD ALLOW
FOR ANY KIND OF FUTURE USE THAT
MIGHT MAKE SENSE IN THAT
LOCATION.
YOU CAN SEE THE GHOSTING OF THE
PARKING STRUCTURE SO TO BE
HONEST IT'S VERY HARD TO SEE
ALL OF WHAT YOU SEE HERE.
BUT FROM THAT MURAL AND FROM
THE YOU YOU ACTUALLY WOULD SEE
THAT IN THIS VIEW IN REAL LIFE
THIS IS THE OTHER BACKSIDE OVER
ON THE SOUTH WEST SIDE THERE'S
JUST A TYPICAL SECTION SHOWING
YOU WHAT IT'S LIKE TO GO
THROUGH IT AND THAT'S TURNED
OVER ANY QUESTIONS?
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO GO TO
STAFF PRESENTATION AND GO TO
MR. KAWALSKY.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, ANOTHER REVISION A KIND
OF EASY ON MY LAST TWO I GUESS
MAKE IT EASY ON ME.
SO AGAIN, YOU DID GREAT JOB
OF SUMMARIZING UP THE CHANGES.
THIS WAS A PLAN THAT YOU ALL
APPROVED I THINK NOT QUITE EVEN
A YEAR AGO.
A COUPLE OF ELEMENTS WITH THIS.
AGAIN, THE SITE PLAN ITSELF IS
WILL BE APPROVED OR COULD BE
APPROVED BY PLAN COMMISSION
HERE TONIGHT.
IT WOULDN'T GO TO COUNCIL.
HOWEVER, THERE IS EXCUSE ME AS
WITH THE PREVIOUS PROJECT THERE
WAS A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
THAT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT DOES
NEED TO BE AMENDED.
THE COUPLE OF NEW ITEMS IN THAT
DEVELOPMENT OBVIOUSLY BASIC
THINGS LIKE A LEGAL DESCRIPTION
THEY'VE AGREED TO UP THERE
THEIR PARKS DONATION FOR THE
NUMBER OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS
THAT HAVE BEEN ADDED.
SO THAT HAS BEEN ADDED TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AS WELL
AS THE IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
PLAZA TRANSFORM OUR PARK FOR
LACK OF A BETTER WORD.
THAT WAS THAT WAS A THERE WAS
NUMEROUS STAFF DISCUSSIONS WITH
STAFF TODAY AS WELL AS THE
PETITIONER THERE.
SO WE DID FEEL WE WORK WITH THE
DDA TO PUT THE LANGUAGE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO ENSURE
THAT THEY'RE COMFORTABLE WITH
THE DEVELOPER WORKING OUT
WHATEVER THE THE FINAL PLAN MAY
BE FOR THAT PLAZA.
WE JUST WEREN'T QUITE THERE IS
THEY INDICATED YET I KNOW WE
HAVE GONE AND I THINK THE
PETITIONER AS WELL AND THAT THE
TRANSFORMERS CANNOT BE MOVED.
I DON'T THINK THEY COULD EVEN
BE COMBINED OR ANY I THINK YOU
GUYS ASKED ALL THOSE QUESTIONS
.
THE TRANSFORMERS ARE STUCK SO
BUT THEY'RE GOING TO DO WE'VE
ALL KIND OF OBVIOUSLY WORKED
WITH THAT FOR THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS.
SO THEY'RE WORKING AROUND SOME
DIFFERENT THINGS TO MAKE THE
PLAZA MORE USEFUL.
SO AGAIN, THE SITE ITSELF COULD
BE APPROVED BY PLANNING
COMMISSION TONIGHT A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IF
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL WOULD
GO TO CITY COUNCIL FOR THE
AMENDMENT.
IT WOULD BE THE FIRST AMENDMENT
TO THE RECORDED DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND AGAIN REALLY THE
CHANGES ARE ALL COVERED AGAIN,
THE BIGGEST CHANGE OBVIOUSLY IS
THE FACADE REALLY KIND OF ON
THE WALL WHAT WOULD BE THE REAR
FACING THE PLAZA NOW THEY HAVE
THE ENTIRE FRONT EDGE ALONG
THAT THEY WORK WITH THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD AS WELL TO KIND
OF CREATE ADDITIONAL OPEN THAT
SPACE UP AS WAS MENTIONED BY
THE PETITIONER IN THE
PRESENTATION TO REALLY HELP
ACTIVATE THAT SPACE A LITTLE
BIT MORE.
I'M SURE MANY OF YOU HAVE BEEN
AROUND THAT THERE PREVIOUSLY
NOT JUST A TRANSFORMERS BUT THE
EXISTING BUILDING THERE IS LIKE
WALLED OFF.
>> IT'S REALLY A HORRIBLE
EXPERIENCE.
SO I THINK THIS WOULD THE DAY
IS IS REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THE
ABILITY TO WORK WITH THE
PETITIONER AND IMPROVE THAT
PLAZA AND I BELIEVE THAT REALLY
COVERS ALL OF THE ITEMS FROM
YES.
FROM THE STAFF REPORT AND WE
ARE RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
OF BOTH THE SITE PLAN AS WELL
AS THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
PERFECT.
THANK.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON THE SITE.
UM, WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF ON
THE PHONE OR USE THE RACE CARD
FEATURE ON ZUM FOR PHONE
ACCESS, PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS FOR THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
AND PLEASE ENSURE YOU'RE IN A
QUIET AREA SO WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
YES, MR. GOVERNOR.
CHARLIE, THANK YOU.
KEN GARBER AGAIN.
I JUST WANT TO ALSO EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION, MR. KAWALSKY, FOR
HIS LONG SERVICE TO THE CITY
NOT ONLY DOES HE HAVE TO ENDURE
MY RANTS HERE AT THIS PODIUM,
HE CAN'T AVOID ME ON THE NUMBER
30 BUS EITHER WHERE I CONTINUE
.
>> SO I APPRECIATE HIS
FORBEARANCE SO TOLERATE
SHOUTING UNIVERSITY 610
SOUTHPAWS COMBINATION.
THIS IS THE FIFTH PROJET
JUST
THE LAST FEW MONTHS TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE THIRTY PERCENT
SUSTAINABILITY EXCEPTION.
THERE WAS THE ORIGINAL WE TALK
UNIVERSITY LEVEL NINE S
UNIVERSITY SIX TWENTY FIVE
CHURCH THREE THIRTEEN BOUND
COURT AND D TWO.
IT'S NO MYSTERY WHY AT THE MAY
20TH MEETING CHARLIE SHARED
SOME BACK OF THE ENVELOPE
CALCULATIONS FOR SIX TWENTY
FIVE CHURCH I'M PARAPHRASING MY
APOLOGIES IF I GET THIS WRONG
BUT AS I HEARD IT HE ESTIMATED
ONE HUNDRED TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLAR COST FOR THE
SOLAR PANELS AND CONDUIT.
IN RETURN FOR THAT THE
DEVELOPER GOT FIFTY EXTRA
MARKET RATE UNITS AND PERHAPS
ONE POINT FIVE MILLION EXTRA
NET OPERATING INCOME WHICH AT A
CAP RATE OF AROUND FOUR POINT
THREE PERCENT INCREASES THE
VALUE OF THE BUILDING BY THIRTY
FOUR TO FORTY MILLION DOLLARS
NOT BAD FOR ONE HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLAR INVESTMENT IN
SOLAR PANELS WHICH BY THE WAY
ONLY COVER A SMALL FRACTION
OF THE BUILDINGS AND
ELECTRICITY DEMAND ON THE NEW
YORK UNIVERSITY PLAN IS FORTY
SIX PERCENT LARGER THAN TWENTY
FIVE CHURCH SO IT'S AN OPEN
VALUATION.
NUMBERS ARE CORRESPONDINGLY
HIGHER YOU KNOW THAT I HATE GAS
LIKE NOTHING ELSE BUT ONCE THE
FAR LIMITS WERE REMOVED THE
SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABILITY
EXCEPTION WENT FROM BEING IN
ELECTRIFICATION INCENTIVE TO
MORE OF A LOOPHOLE IN MY
OPINION UDC AND LET'S FACE IT
BASED ON THESE NUMBERS GIFT TO
DEVELOPERS.
MEANWHILE, NO ONE IS TAKING THE
AFFORDABILITY EXCEPTION CLEARLY
EXPLAIN THAT ALSO AT AN
AFFORDABLE HOME VERSUS MARKET
RATE SPREADED ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY SEVEN DOLLARS PER SQUARE
FOOT FOR THE REQUIRED FIFTEEN
PERCENT OF UNITS AN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CONTRIBUTION THE CHURCH
PROJECT WOULD BE SOMEWHERE
AROUND THREE MILLION DOLLARS IN
ORDER TO OBTAIN THE EXTRA
HEIGHT IN THEIR RIGHT MIND
WOULD PAY THREE MILLION VERSUS
THE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS IN SOLAR PANELS FOR THE
SAME BENEFIT AND I REALIZED
THAT THESE WERE JUST ROUGH
CALCULATIONS.
BUT I THINK THEY GIVE US SOME
IDEA OF HOW UNBALANCED THIS
SECTION FIVE EIGHTEEN FOR THE
UDC AFFORDABILITY VERSUS
SUSTAINABILITY.
NO ONE'S GOING TO GO FOR THE
AFFORDABILITY EXCEPTION WITH
WITH THIS YOU DON'T NEED TO
NOTICE DID NOTE THAT A LARGER
BUILDING WOULD PAY MORE
PROPERTY TAX WHICH WOULD
INCLUDE THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILEAGE.
BUT THAT'S ONE MORE OUT OF 53
MILLS IN THE IN A DISTRICT NINE
HOMESTEAD MILITARY.
SO JUST MAYBE TWENTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS A YEAR PRETTY SMALL
AMOUNT NOW YOU RECOGNIZE THE
PROPORTIONALITY PROBLEM.
THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO GO ON YOUR
JUNE 10TH PLAN BUT NEVER MADE.
>> I REALLY SUGGEST YOU ADDRESS
THIS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU, MR. GOVERNOR.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
SEE NONE DO WE HAVE REMOTE
CALLERS OR CALLERS NO CALLERS
TO THEIR ENTRIES.
OK, GIVE IT A FEW MORE SECONDS
.
OK WITH THAT WE'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT THE PROPOSED MOTION IS
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE TWELVE
OH EIGHT S UNIVERSITY SITE PLAN
VERSION FOUR DATED MAY 30TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITES AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US
OFF?
>> COMMISSIONER WHITE THANK YOU
.
YOU DID WHAT I USUALLY ASK MAKE
IT TALLER SO WE'LL START WITH
WHY DIDN'T YOU MAKE IT LIKE HOW
EXPLAINED TO ME THE UTILIZATION
OF THE THIRTY PERCENT HEIGHT
BONUS AND HOW DID THAT ONLY
YIELD ONE MORE FLOOR NO YIELD
QUITE A FEW DIFFERENT FLOORS
I'D HAVE TO GO BACK TO TO
MEASURE THE HEIGHT BUT I THINK
IT'S LIKE FIVE OR SIX FLOORS
DIFFERENT.
SO THEN WHY DID YOU STOP AT
JUST ONE MORE FLOOR INSTEAD
OF TAKING FULL ADVANTAGE OF THE
HITBOX?
WE DID TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE.
WE'RE WE'RE MAXED OUT AS HIGH
AS WE COULD GO IN EVERY
DIRECTION.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS SEVENTEEN
STORIES AND IT ONLY IS GOING UP
TO EIGHTEEN.
IT WAS IT WAS A IT'S EIGHTEEN
STORIES IN THAT WE PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED SEVENTY SIX SEVENTY
STORIES PREVIOUSLY APPROVED FOR
BREAKING STORY.
RIGHT IT WAS THE SAME YEAH.
SO THAT'S MY MISTAKE.
I APOLOGIZE I DO WANT TO I
NOTED WHAT MR. BARBER BROUGHT
UP BEFORE MR. BARBER BROUGHT IT
UP WHICH WAS THE UTILIZATION
OF THE SOLAR TO ENABLE THE
ADDITIONAL UNITS.
SO CAN YOU BRING THAT SLIDE
BACK UP?
ABSOLUTELY.
AND IF YOU'RE WILLING JUST FOR
MY EDIFICATION, WERE THE
NUMBERS THAT CHARLIE DID ON THE
BACK OF THE NAPKIN?
I THINK HE ACTUALLY DID IT ON A
SPREADSHEET BECAUSE WE WERE
SITTING NEXT TO EACH OTHER THE
LAST TIME THIS HAPPENED.
DID THAT PLAY OUT?
ARE WE ARE WE IN THE SAME
BALLPARK THAT IT'S LESS THAN
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
TO ASK THE SOLAR TO GET THE
ADDITIONAL UNIT?
>> I DON'T WANT TO GIVE YOU AN
EXACT NUMBER ON THAT BUT I
THINK IT'S WAY MORE THAN THAT.
I DON'T ACTUALLY THINK YOU'RE
PROBABLY IN THE RIGHT BALLPARK
FOR THE COST OF THE INDIVIDUAL
FOR THE ACTUAL SOLAR PANELS AND
THE CONDUIT BECAUSE OF THE WAY
THE CODE IS WRITTEN THOUGH TO
MAXIMIZE THE NUMBER OF SOLAR
PANELS ON THE ROOF WE'RE USING
LIKE AN ELEVATOR NOT LIKE WE'RE
USING ELEVATED TIER STRUCTURE
TO RAISE THE SOLAR PANELS UP SO
THAT WE SAW A MECHANICAL
UNDERNEATH THEM THAT RAISE
TARIFFS AND CREATES A
STRUCTURAL LOAD THAT WE HAVE TO
PHRASE FOR THE ROOF.
SO IT DOES ADD ARE YOU TELLING
ME THAT THE SOLAR PANELS
INCREASE YOUR STRUCTURAL ARE
OK?
WELL, WE ADD A WHOLE EXTRA
FLOOR.
JUST IMAGINE THE STEEL
STRUCTURE TO PUT THE SOLAR
PANELS ON BECAUSE I HAVE TO
HAVE SOME PLACE TO PUT ALL THE
MECHANICAL UNITS UNDERNEATH AND
YOU GUYS AT SOME POINT APPROVED
ENOUGH TIME THINK ENOUGH
HEIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR DOING BECAUSE THE
VFR UNITS NEED TO BLOW AIR UP
TO COOL SO THEY'RE BLOWING ON
THE BOTTOM OF THE SOLAR PANELS
.
SO CAN WE GO BACK TO THE SLIDE
THAT ACTUALLY HAS THE BREAKDOWN
OF THE ARE AND THE UNITS?
SURE RIGHT THERE.
OK, SO WE'RE SAYING THAT IT'S
POTENTIAL THAT CHARLIE'S
NUMBERS ARE CORRECT AND SO THEN
THAT GIVES US WHAT TWO HUNDRED
AND SIXTY FIVE ADDITIONAL BEDS
THERE ARE ABOUT WILL THE
INCREASE IN THE BED COUNT
THOUGH IS IS BEING DRIVEN BY
THE ADDITIONAL PARCEL WE WERE
UTILIZING THE SUSTAINABILITY
BONUS ON THE ORIGINALLY
APPROVED SITE PLAN AS WELL.
OK, EVERYTHING ON THE ORIGINAL
IS THE EXACT SAME BUILDING
FUNDAMENTALLY AND JUST TO POINT
OUT THAT IS LEED GOLD
EQUIVALENT.
IT'S AN ALL ELECTRIC NO IT'S IN
THE CODE YOU GET TO USE IT.
YEAH I DON'T THINK I'M SITTING
HERE SAYING YOU DON'T GET TO
USE IT.
I THINK WHAT I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND IS YOU HAVE THE
EXPERTIZE THAT I DON'T WHICH IS
YOU SEE THE BENEFIT OF IT IN A
DIFFERENT WAY THAN MAYBE IT WAS
INTENDED IN THE CODE BECAUSE
IT'S ALLOWING YOU TO UTILIZE
THAT HEIGHT DENSITY OR HEIGHT
INCREASE TO PUT MORE BEDS, MORE
UNITS WHICH THEN INCREASES THE
VALUE OF THE PROPERTY ACCORDING
TO HOW MR. GARBER INTERPRETED
CHARLIE'S COMMENTS FOR THE LAST
DEVELOPMENT YOU SAID SOMETHING
THAT WAS QUITE SURPRISING TO ME
AND SO I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY
SO CAN YOU GO TO THE PARK AND
FLY?
>> COULD YOU WENT BY IT VERY
QUICKLY.
YOU SAID THAT THIS INCREASE
PARKING IS WHAT IS REQUIRED IN
THE RULES THAT THAT'S NOT AN
ACCURATE STATEMENT.
HEY, I WANTED TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT RULES THEY SAW.
I THOUGHT I WAS SAYING THAT FOR
THE BIKES SO THE BIKES WERE IN
YOU SAID IT FOR PARKING BECAUSE
I WROTE ABOUT IT BECAUSE IT
BECAUSE THE FIRST THING I WAS
GOING TO ASK BEFORE WE GOT TO
THE SOLAR BUT MR. GARBER MADE
HIS COMMENTS WAS WHY DID YOU
INCREASE THE PARKING?
IT'S JUST FUNDAMENTALLY THAT'S
WHAT WAS LEFT OVER WITHIN THE
BUILDING WHEN WE ADDED THAT
WING ON.
SO I'M SURE IT JUST LAID OUT A
LITTLE BIT BETTER IF THE
ADDITIONAL PARTS OF THAT WE ADD
I MEAN YOU CAN SEE ON THE SLIDE
BOTH LEVELS OF IT FUNCTION FOR
ACTUAL FUNCTIONAL BUILDING
SPACE.
SO WE'RE NOT ACTUALLY ADDING
ANY PARKING IN THE ADDITIONAL
PARCEL.
IT'S JUST THAT THE GARAGE LAID
OUT LATER BECAUSE YOU COULD
HAVE DONE SOMETHING ELSE WITH
THAT.
YOU COULD HAVE MADE THAT BIKE
PARKING, COULD HAVE MADE IT
STORAGE.
YOU DECIDED TO MAKE IT PARKING.
CORRECT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
YES.
OK, I'M JUST TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND NOT YOU'RE FINE TO
DO AT YOUR SITE YOU GET TO
DESIRE TO WAIT YOU WANT THE
RULES ALLOW YOU TO DO IT AS
LONG AS IT COMPORTS WITH THE
UDC.
BUT THESE ARE MY QUESTIONS AND
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
UNDERSTANDING THAT YOU ARE
MAKING THOSE DECISIONS
YOURSELF.
SO THIS BACKS UP TO ANALEIGH
CORRECT?
IT'S NOT TECHNICALLY I KNOW
IT'S NOT WE'VE HAD THAT
CONVERSATION BUT YES.
YES.
AND AND SO YOU AND THE OTHER
DEVELOPER ARE GOING TO RE
DESIGN THIS WHOLE STRETCH
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT WE HEARD
THE LAST TIME WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT THAT'S CLOSER TO
THE RICS NIGHTCLUB.
YEAH.
THE CHURCH STREET AND SO DID
DID YOU HIGHLIGHT FOR US ANY
OTHER THAN THE TRANSFORMER PARK
IMPROVEMENTS THAT YOU'RE MAKING
TO THIS SPACE LIKE AH IS THERE
ADDITIONAL LIGHTING THAT'S
GOING TO BE THERE?
ARE THERE OTHER KINDS
OF PROTECTIONS TO MAKE IT
EASIER FOR PEDESTRIANS TO
TRANSIT THROUGH THIS SPACE?
ARE WE
BREAKS TO GO IN AND ARE
WE CREATING PLACEMAKING OR
ANYTHING ALONG THOSE LINES OR
IS THAT OUTSIDE OF YOUR SCOPE
AND YOU HAVE NO INTEREST IN
THAT OTHER THAN THE MERE?
WELL, I THINK I WOULD JUST
CLARIFY THAT THE PARK THE PLAZA
HAS SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASED.
EVERYTHING ELSE IS EXACTLY THE
WAY IT WAS BEFORE.
IT'S BASICALLY TWO GARAGE DOORS
THAT ALLOW YOU TO GO UP IN A
RAMP AND ALLOW YOU TO GO INTO
THE GARAGE.
ADEQUATE LIGHTING, THERE'S
SECURITY, THERE'S GATES,
THERE'S ALL OF THAT AND THEN
THERE'S AN ELECTRIC TRANSFORMER
GENERATOR SORRY THAT IS INSIDE
THE BUILDING THAT IS ADJACENT
TO IT AND YOUR
WASTE MANAGEMENT
IS INSIDE.
IT'S TUCKED IN THE BACK KIND
OF ALWAYS IN DUMPSTERS THAT ARE
CURRENTLY THERE ARE GOING AWAY.
SO WHERE ARE PEOPLE GOING TO
BORROW WHERE?
WELL, THEY CAN STILL DO WHERE
THEY ALWAYS DO BUT SO I THINK
YOU KNOW, I I'M ASKING THIS
QUESTION AND YES.
BUT THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
US TO MAKE THIS SPACE A LITTLE
BETTER.
SO ANYTHING THAT YOU CAN DO TO
MAKE THAT SPACE A LITTLE BIT
BETTER WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
BRING THAT UP AT THE NEXT DAY.
I WOULD APPRECIATE THAT WE HAVE
COMMITTED TO WORKING WITH THE
TO IMPROVE THIS SPACE AS MUCH
AS WE CAN.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR BRINGING
THIS.
THANKS FOR INCREASING THE
NUMBER OF BEDS AND UNITS WE
REALLY NEED HOUSING AND WE'RE
GRATEFUL THAT YOU ARE BUILDING
AND THAT YOU'RE BUILDING IN
THIS WAY.
THANK YOU.
OF THE COMMISSIONERS COMMENTS
ON THE SITE PLAN IF I COULD
JUST I'LL JUST ADD ONE THING TO
THE COMMENT AND THE THE I WAS
JUST GOING TO SEE THE ALLEY BUT
DRIVE THERE.
SO THE ENGINEER WAS WORKING ON
THE SAME BOTH PROJECTS.
SO WE'VE HAD JOINT MEETINGS
WITH THE DDA MR. SALT HERE WHO
IS WORKING ON BOTH PROJECTS.
SO WE GOT A WHOLE TEAM AND ALL
STAFF SO WE'RE KIND OF ALL MAKE
SURE WE'RE ON THE SAME PAGE AS
FAR AS WHO'S DOING WHAT.
THERE'S SIMILAR LANGUAGE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR SIX
TWENTY FIVE CHURCH THAT AGAIN
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE IMPROVE
THE PLAZA AND COORDINATE WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
>> SO I MEAN PLANTERS THAT HAVE
URINALS TRYING MAKE LOTS
OF THINGS TO DO TO IMPROVE THIS
SPACE AND IT'S NOT EVERY DAY
THAT'S THE WHOLE THING IT'S
GOING TO GET REDEVELOPED.
SO THAT'S CROWD AND THEY'RE
JUST SMALL LITTLE THINGS
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO ADD
SUBSTANTIAL COST TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BUT THEY WILL GO A
LONG WAY AND PLACEMAKING.
SO HOPEFULLY YOU'RE PICKING UP
WHAT I'M DO WE HAVE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WITH COMMENTS?
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT, I
HAVE A QUICK QUESTION AS I'M
LOOKING AT THIS ON THE STREET
VIEW ALSO WHEN YOU FIRST SAID
TRANSFORMER PARK I WAS LIKE OH
GOD NO, DON'T CALL IT THAT.
NO, I'M LIKE NO, WE CALL THAT
LIKE EMBRACE THEM.
ARE YOU OR IS IT LIKE I THINK
I'M COMING FIVE THAT ARE
EXISTING YOU'RE NOT ADDING MORE
THERE'S POTENTIAL THERE'S MORE
AND MORE BEING ADDED.
WE'RE FIGHTING TO TAKE ONE OUT
BUT WE HAVE TO PUT ONE MORE IN
FOR SURE.
>> OK, THIS IS A SILLY
QUESTION.
>> DOES A LIGHT LIKE PAINT THEM
LIKE DO ART ON THEM OR ARE THEY
ACTIVELY I MEAN I THINK THE
GRAFFITI IN THE STREET VIEW
PAINTED.
YEAH.
DO YOU GET PAINTED IN OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES?
WE HAVE WORKED WITH UTILITY
PROVIDER TO DO TRANSFORMER ART
ACTUALLY GENERALLY THEY PREFER
YOU TO WRAP THEM WITH VINYL
WRAP AS OPPOSED TO ACTUAL
PAINT.
WE'VE NOT GOTTEN THAT FAR WITH
DTI YET HERE BUT IT IS ON THE
LIST WE GO YEAH I YEAH I KIND
OF WANT TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO
CALL IT TRANSFORMER PARK.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
.
>> OK ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I
THINK WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
ROLL CALL VOTE I GOT THIS THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT GOES TO
CITY COUNCIL.
THIS PLAN ENDS HERE SO THAT NO
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE TWELVE OHSU
UNIVERSALISTIC PLAN VERSION
FOUR DATED MAY 30TH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE AND RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT ROLL-CALL VOTE ON THE
MOTION IS PRESENTED
COMMISSIONER LEE YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
.
>> COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
AND COMMISSIONER NORTON YES.
>> THAT CARRIES GOOD LUCK WITH
CONTRUCTION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO THEIR
BUSINESS.
OH MR. KAWALSKY GRANULATION
.
YEAH.
THANKS FOR THAT.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
OK YEAH.
HI GOOD MORNING.
OF ALL RIGHT WITH THAT WE'RE
GOING GO ON TO SECTION NUMBER
TEN.
THIS IS OTHER BUSINESS.
THIS IS A REVIEW OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SECOND DRAFT
WE HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION
FROM MICHELLE BONNER.
WITH THAT WE WILL TURN IT OVER
TO PLANNER BENNETT AS SOON AS
SHE GETS SETTLED IN AND GIVE US
JUST A SECOND WHILE WE MAKE THE
SWITCH OUT TO FOLKS.
>> GIVE US TUESDAY
I THINK OK.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, WE'RE GOING TO GET STARTED.
YES.
YES WE ARE.
PLEASE PROCEED.
THANK YOU.
AND OK.
WELL GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONERS
IN YOUR PACKET YOU HAVE A MEMO
FROM STAFF THAT OUTLINES HOW
WE'VE ORGANIZED YOUR SECOND
ROUND OF EDITS FOR THE DRAFT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO I'M HAPPY TO GO THROUGH THE
WAY THAT WE TRIED TO ORGANIZE
THIS BEFORE WE GET INTO THE
SPECIFIC EDITS SO YOU CAN SEE
HERE CATEGORIES OF EDITS
RECEIVED FROM COMMISSIONERS' IN
THE VERY TOP TABLE THAT WILL
START WITH OUR DISCUSSION
ITEMS.
THESE ARE AREAS WHERE WE WOULD
LIKE TO GET A LITTLE MORE
DIRECTION OR EXPLANATION SO
THAT WE ARE ALL ON THE SAME
PAGE WITH THE RATIONALE AND THE
DIRECTION THAT YOU WANT STAFF
TO MOVE THESE AND THAT'S
IDEALLY WHERE WE WILL SPEND THE
MAJORITY OF OUR TIME IS ON
THOSE ITEMS.
THE SECOND CATEGORY IS STAFF.
THESE ARE CHANGES OR THESE ARE
SUGGESTED EDITS THAT ARE THAT
COULD REQUIRE SOME DISCUSSION
IF WE'D LIKE TO IT'S KIND OF A
SECOND TIER BUT THAT THE
ARGUMENT THAT WAS MADE BY THE
THE COMMISSIONER WAS CLEAR
ENOUGH TO US WHERE WE CAN TAKE
IT AND MOVE WITH IT.
BUT BECAUSE IT'S NOT JUST A
STRAIGHTFORWARD LIKE ADD A
COMMA HERE WE THOUGHT WE WOULD
HAVE THIS KIND OF SECOND TIER
WHERE WE CAN DOVE INTO SOME
OF THESE IF YOU WOULD ALL LIKE
TO DISCUSS SOME OF THEM AND
THEN THE THIRD ARE JUST FACTUAL
LIKE WE'RE JUST GOING TO MAKE
THEM THEY ADD A CITATION HERE
OR A VERY SIMPLE CHANGE THAT
DOESN'T HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL
IMPACT ON THE MEANING OR
DIRECTION OF THE PLAN.
>> THIS DOES NOT INCLUDE
EVERYTHING THAT WAS SENT TO US
SO WE DO HAVE A LIST OF THOSE.
>> SO IF YOU FEEL LIKE
SOMETHING HERE IS SUPER
CONSEQUENTIAL AND YOU WOULD
LIKE TO DISCUSS WE CAN BRING IT
FORWARD BUT JUST KNOW THAT
THERE WAS SOME STAFF JUDGMENT
IN THIS BECAUSE YOU CAN SEE THE
DOCUMENTS ALREADY 20 PAGES.
SO WE WERE TRYING TO GO THROUGH
AND USE OUR PROFESSIONAL
JUDGMENT AND DISCRETION HERE TO
ORGANIZE THEM AS TRANSPARENTLY
AS POSSIBLE WHILE BALANCING,
YOU KNOW, OUR TIME AND ENERGY
IN THESE EVENINGS FOR MAKING
THESE EDITS.
SO AGAIN, THIS IS THE WAY WE'RE
TRYING TO DIRECT THE
DISCUSSION.
BUT IF YOU FEEL LIKE THERE ARE
THINGS YOU WOULD LIKE TO
DISCUSS THAT ARE NOT HERE, WE
CAN ALSO DO THAT TONIGHT OR AT
ANOTHER MEETING.
>> OK, THAT SOUNDS LIKE PLAN
THE COMMISSIONER WISH YOU
COMMENT JUST A QUICK QUESTION.
ARE THERE HIGH RESOLUTION
COPIES OF THE MAPS THAT YOU CAN
SHARE?
>> I HAVE A HIGH RESOLUTION
VERSION OF THE FUTURE LAND USE
MAP THAT I CAN SHARE.
>> PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
OK, YOU KNOW ONE ONE WAS
INCLUDED IN THE PACKET.
OH YEAH IT'S I'M IT'S NOT
THAT'S THE HIGHEST RESOLUTION
WE HAVE BUT IT'S MORE THAN JUST
WHAT WAS INCLUDED IN THE
DOCUMENT.
GOT TO THANK YOU AS FAR AS THE
STRUCTURE OF THE REVIEW
COMMUNITY COMMISSIONERS ANY
CONCERNS ABOUT JUST GOING
THROUGH THE DISCUSSIONS JUST
KIND OF TAKING THROUGH THE
ORGANIZATIONAL FORMAT THAT'S
THERE WITH THAT PLANNER BENNET,
I THINK YOU'RE GOOD TO PROCEED
.
>> OK, SO IF WE SCROLL DOWN TO
THE FIRST TABLE THAT'S LABELED
DISCUSSION CHAPTER ONE I WE CAN
GO IN PAGE ORDER IF YOU'D LIKE
BUT I WANTED TO GET TO MAYBE A
FINAL TAKE ON THESE CARTOON
STRIPS IF ANYONE.
THERE'S MIXED REVIEWS LIKE I
THINK WE'RE AT THE POINT WHERE
IT'S LIKE ARE THEY IN OR OUT?
SO ANYONE HAVE I RECOGNIZE THE
DESIRE TO MAKE THE PLAN
ACCESSIBLE.
I HONESTLY THINK THERE TOO
DISTRACTING AND THEY RAISE TOO
MANY QUESTIONS THAT HAVE ME
ASKING WHERE'S THIS COMING
FROM?
WHO WHO'S IT REFLECTING ON?
I THINK THEY'RE PROBLEMATIC.
I WOULD JUST TAKE THEM OUT.
DITTO.
I WOULD LEAVE THEM IN BECAUSE I
THINK THEY WERE ACCESSIBLE AND
I CERTAINLY HAD A CONVERSATION
WITH MY WIFE WHEN WE WENT
THROUGH IT AND SHE WAS LIKE OH
I UNDERSTAND THIS BETTER NOW
BECAUSE SHE'S NOT SHE'S MORE
VISUAL LEARNER AND THEN MY
DAUGHTER WHO HAS A FORM
OF SYNESTHESIA WHERE SHE
EXPERIENCES A MOTION BASED ON
COLORS, SHE REALIZED THAT
WHOEVER DID IT DID A REALLY
GOOD JOB OF KEEPING THE COLOR
PALETTE IN A VERY LIVELY,
NEUTRAL AND INVITING WAY.
I WAS JUST GOING DOWN A TABLE
HERE.
YEAH.
I WOULD VOTE TO REMOVE THEM.
OK, I DON'T
HAVE A PREFERENCE.
>> CAN I HAVE A PREFERENCE?
>> THAT'S FINE.
YEAH.
SO QUESTION WILL THERE BE ANY
THOUGHTS I DON'T LIKE THEM I
WOULD VOTE TO REMOVE THEM BUT I
DO THINK KEEPING THEM AS PART
OF A PACKET OR A KIND OF A
WEBSITE OR SOME ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION RELATED WOULD BE I
MEAN I DON'T I DON'T HATE THEM
AS AN ENTITY.
I JUST DON'T FIND THEM
PARTICULARLY HELPFUL IN THIS
DOCUMENT.
SO CAN WE JUST DO IT?
YEAH, JUST JUST TO BE CLEAR
HANDS THAT WOULD LIKE IT SOUNDS
LIKE I'M THE ONLY ONE IN FAVOR
SO I DON'T THINK SO WE'RE GOING
TO GET RID OF THEM.
>> YES, DEFINITELY OK ON THAT
SAME SPREAD SO WELL I PUT THAT
DOWN IS EIGHTEEN THEY SPENT I
THINK A FEW DIFFERENT PAGES BUT
I'LL MAKE A NOTE TO REMOVE ALL
OF THEM SO PAGE EIGHTEEN
NINETEEN OR ARE YOU INCLUDING
JUST THE SORT OF LIKE THE
STRIPS STRIPS THE CARTOON
STRIPS IS WHAT I WAS WRITING SO
I DON'T LIKE THE LITTLE PEOPLE
GRAPHICS BUT I DON'T WHICH I
WOULD KIND OF CONSIDERED PART
OF THAT BUT LIKE THE
COVER PAGE.
LIKE THE COVER PAGE WELL
THEY'RE JUST LIKE RANDOM PEOPLE
SPREAD THROUGHOUT THAT I DON'T
REALLY KNOW BUT I DON'T KNOW IF
THOSE ARE CONSIDERED THAT IN MY
HEAD WAS PART OF IT BUT THERE'S
ALL THE QUOTE TO PEOPLE ARE
THERE ANY OTHER PERSPECTIVES ON
THAT?
I THINK THE INTENTION WAS JUST
THE GRAPHIC INTEREST.
SO IT'S NOT ALL TEXT OR AND
VERY TEXT ORIENTED IF WE WANT
TO REMOVE THEM.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR WE ARE IN
THE REFINING THIS PLAN STAGE
AND SO I WOULDN'T I WOULDN'T
ASK THAT IF WE'RE GOING TO GET
RID OF THEM THAT THEY GET
REPLACED WITH ANYTHING ELSE.
>> BUT IF THERE ARE OTHER
THOUGHTS ON THAT OH YEAH, I'M
SURE I WOULD ALSO SUPPORT
REMOVING THEM AND I THINK IF
YOU IF I PAGE THROUGH HERE WE
HAVE A LOT OF GRAPHIC WE DO A
LOT OF GRAPHICS GOING ON.
>> IT'S NOT EVEN WITHOUT THEM.
I THINK IT'S A VERY GRAPHIC
DYNAMIC DOCUMENT.
THERE ARE PROBABLY PLACES I
LIKE THEM LESS THAN I HAVE THE
PLACES WHERE I LIKE THEM EVEN
LESS BUT MAYBE THE EASIEST
THING WOULD BE TO JUST FOR ME
TO JUST SAY REMOVE THEM SO I
WOULD SUPPORT THAT.
>> LET'S DO UH IF WE REMOVE
THEM CAN WE REPLACE IT WITH A
PHOTO?
I JUST DON'T WANT IT TO BE A
WHITE PAGE THAT SAYS ANN ARBOR
FOR ALL WITH THE TREE SEAL OF A
COVER .
YEAH YEAH.
THAT'S NOT WHERE WE ARE.
SO I'M SAYING I WANT TO REMOVE
THEM EVERYWHERE THEY'RE OH LIKE
RIGHT THERE.
I MEAN I DON'T THINK THEY'RE
DOING ANYTHING HERE ON PAGE TWO
THEY'RE FILLING OR FOUR OR
SEVEN I'M ASSUMING THAT WE'LL
HAVE ANOTHER COVER .
WE WON'T JUST HAVE A BLANKET
BUT OTHERWISE I DON'T THINK
THEY NEED TO BE REPLACED.
THEY LIKE A LITTLE ARTIST'S
SKETCH OF SOMETHING RIGHT.
NO MORE NO MORE TREES.
THEY KEEP EVERYTHING OK.
I LOVE TREES BUT EVERY CITY HAS
A TREE WITH THEIR LOGO.
>> DO WE NEED TO VOTE ON THAT?
THAT'S WHAT I'M SAYING.
>> I THINK I THINK WE'RE MOVING
THEM AND WHERE THERE MIGHT BE
OPPORTUNITIES TO TAKE PHOTOS
AND IF YOU FIND A GOOD PHOTO
WE'RE REMOVING THE PEOPLE.
>> OK, GREAT.
WELL LET'S STAY ON THIS SPREAD
FOR 18 AND 19.
THIS DOES FEEL LIKE A SPECIFIC
ONE.
IT SAYS DELETE LAST SENTENCE
OF FIRST AND PARAGRAPH BUT IT
RAISED A LARGER ISSUE I THINK
IN THIS ANN ARBOR NOW OR ANN
ARBOR TODAY LIKE THAT KIND
OF SNAPSHOT OF WHERE WE ARE
OF THESE LAST SENTENCES
REPRESENT OUR POLICY STATEMENTS
WHEN WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO
HERE IS JUST DESCRIBE WHERE
WHERE WE'RE AT A DESCRIPTION
OF ANN ARBOR TODAY.
SO THERE WAS A REQUEST TO
REMOVE THE LAST SENTENCE OF THE
FIRST AND THIRD PARAGRAPH AND I
BELIEVE THAT'S PROBABLY BECAUSE
THOSE ARE STATED ELSEWHERE AS
WELL.
IT'S NOT ACTUALLY REMOVING THAT
SENTIMENT JUST FROM THAT
SECTION.
THAT WAS MY QUESTION I THINK
AND IT JUST SIMPLY SEEMED OUT
OF PLACE TYPE OF STATEMENTS OR
THE CAN YOU READ THE SENTENCES
THAT AS THE CITY GROWS TO BE
STRATEGIC THAT'S A GOAL AND A
STRATEGY TO FOCUS ON.
>> OK, SO I GUESS THE LARGER
QUESTION IS LIKE LEAVE THE
STRATEGIES AND THE POLICY
STATEMENTS IN THE SECTIONS
OF THE PLAN WHERE THEY ARE
DESIGNATED AND LEAVE THIS HERE.
THIS IS KIND LIKE A DATA
SUMMARY OF WHERE WE ARE
.
>> YES, AND FEEL FREE TO JUMP
IN JUST FROM A STRUCTURE
STANDPOINT YOU ARE JUST WAITING
.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO DO IT
THOUGH THEN WE PROBABLY NEED TO
CAREFULLY SCRUB THE WHOLE
SECTION BECAUSE I THINK THERE
ARE OTHER PLACES BESIDES THOSE
TWO WHERE DRIFTING INTO
STRATEGY SUCH AS DO I MEAN I
KNOW I KNOW THAT I SAID NO I'M
NOT SAYING LIKE INSTEAD OF LIKE
TRYING TO PICK WAS OUT RIGHT
NOW IF THE DIRECTION IS JUST
KEEP THIS DATA FOCUSED AND
REMOVE LIKE POLICY LEVEL
STATEMENTS THEN THAT WOULD BE
ENOUGH DIRECTION I THINK FOR
STUFF.
>> OK, GREAT.
IF SO I WOULD SUPPORT THAT
EVERYBODY.
>> I'M OK WITH THAT BUT I HAVE
A CAN I ASK A QUESTION THAT'S
MORE ABOUT THE PROCESS OF THIS
AND DID YOU SAY THAT SO YOU
SAID THAT THERE'S STUFF IN HERE
THAT IN HERE THAT'S ELSEWHERE
AND YOU DO THIS WANT US TO
BRING IT UP IF WE FEEL IT'S
IMPORTANT AND YOU DIDN'T PUT IT
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
YES.
OK, I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
BRING IT UP NOW OR LATER.
I THOUGHT WE WERE KIND OF GOING
THROUGH ALL THE DISCUSSION
THINGS FIRST I WOULD SAY LET'S
GO THROUGH THE DISCUSSION
OF THINGS AND THEN AND THEN
WE'LL COME BACK.
SOUNDS GOOD IF THAT'S OK.
>> YOU ONLY GO OUT A FEW MORE
HOURS TO GET THROUGH ALL THIS.
>> I KNOW.
YEAH.
KIND ANOTHER MEETING WE SHOULD
DISCUSS SCHEDULE.
YEAH WE'LL DISCUSS SCHEDULE AT
SOME POINT AS FAR AS WE CAN OK
PAGE TWENTY ONE THERE WAS A
SUGGESTION TO DELETE DRIVING
MORE PROPERTY VALUE OUT
OF COMMERCIAL OFFICE AND RETAIL
REAL STATE WILL BE IMPORTANT TO
GENERATE REVENUE THAT DOES NOT
ADD TO THE BURDEN ON
RESIDENTIAL TAXES.
THERE WERE ACTUALLY A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS ABOUT THIS JUST
THAT THIS IS UNCLEAR.
UM, WELL YOU ALL CAN SEE THAT
THERE'S A COLUMN THERE WITH THE
RATIONALE IF YOU WANT TO READ
THROUGH THAT THAT IS THE
RATIONALE FOR DELETING AND I
FEEL LIKE THIS HAS BEEN AN
ONGOING CONVERSATION ABOUT THIS
TOPIC AND SO IT'S PROBABLY TIME
TO DECIDE HOW WE WOULD LIKE TO
TALK ABOUT, UM HOW THE PLAN IS
GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE TAX
BASE
.
WE COULD TRY TO EXPLAIN WHAT IT
MEANS IF THAT'S HELPFUL, LIKE
IF WE COULD TRY TO CLARIFY IT
OR IF THAT'S HELPFUL OR DELETED
AS IS REQUESTED.
I'M STILL TRYING TO FIND IT ON
PAGE TWENTY ONE IT STARTS WITH
DELETE.
>> I'M DRIVING DELETE CERTAIN
DRIVING IS ANOTHER D WORD.
>> WHICH PARAGRAPH IS IT IN
SOME I GUESS I COULD JUST
CONTROL THE SECOND COLUMN ON
THE RIGHT AND THE LAST SENTENCE
FIRST PARAGRAPH DRIVING MY
PROPERTY VALUE OUT
OF COMMERCIAL OFFICE AND RETAIL
ITEM.
YEAH I GUESS AND I BROUGHT THIS
TO THE ATTENTION BECAUSE I JUST
THINK PROBABLY PAGE TWENTY ONE
WE NEED TO DISCUSS AS AS A
COMMISSION BECAUSE I THINK
WE'VE HAD MIXED IT'S BEEN MIXED
ON HOW WE WANT TO DISCUSS THIS
TOPIC AND I ALSO FEEL LIKE
COUNCIL MAY HAVE DIFFERENT
POINTS OF VIEW ON THIS
PARTICULAR SO IT THAT'S A WHOLE
NOTHER KETTLE OF FISH BUT WELL
I THINK I THINK WE'VE TALKED A
LOT THIS TABLE THAT WE ARE WE
ARE PREDOMINANTLY RELYING ON
RESIDENTIAL TAX BASE THAT IS
OFTEN OUR SORT OF RESIDENTIAL
SMALL R AND RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES THAT ARE IN OUR
COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIOS.
>> BUT THE MAJORITY OF OUR TAX
BASE IS ON THE BACKS OF PEOPLE
WHO EITHER OWN OR RENT THEIR
HOMES BECAUSE THOSE COSTS
ULTIMATELY ARE BORNE BY THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN BOTH
OF THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES.
ADDITIONALLY, WE ARE INCREDIBLY
JOB FOCUSED ON THE UNIVERSITY.
>> SO LET ME JUST TRY TO
UNDERSTAND EXACTLY WHAT'S
HAPPENING HERE.
SO WE GOT A SIXTY THREE PERCENT
PROPERTY TAXES ARE BEING
GENERATED OUT OF RESIDENTIAL
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
CONCEPT OF WE SHOULD DIVERSIFY
OUR PROPERTY TAX BASE IN ORDER
TO CREATE I KNOW SOMEBODY SAID
THAT THE WORD RESILIENCE WAS
USED LIKE 50 PLUS TIMES OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT BUT BUT THE
WHOLE IDEA IS TO SAY LIKE IF WE
DIVERSIFY OUR PROPERTY TAX BASE
THEN FOR EXAMPLE LIKE OFFICE
NOT DOING SO HOT RIGHT NOW MOST
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO APPEAL
THEIR TAXES IN OFFICE.
BUT IF WE'RE ABLE TO DIVERSIFY
WITH RETAIL NOT NECESSARILY
INDUSTRIAL BUT WITH FLEX AND
OTHER TYPES OF USES THAT WHAT
WE DO IS WE TRY TO REDUCE
RELIANCE AND PRESSURE ON
PROPERTY TAXES.
>> THE QUESTION I GUESS I HAVE
IS SURE I THINK DIVERSIFY
BUYING TAX BREAKS MAKES SENSE.
THE QUESTION I HAVE IS HOW TO
OPERATIONALIZE IT LIKE SO YES.
WE AGREE WITH THAT BUT WHO IS
GOING TO USE THAT PARTICULAR
SENTENCE AS A KIND OF LIKE A
JUSTIFICATION FOR MAKING A
SPECIFIC KIND OF LIKE POLICY
READING OF THE MASS THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
>> SO I'M JUST TRYING TO THINK
OF LIKE HOW IS THAT SENTENCE
GOING TO GET USED?
I MEAN I GUESS IN ESSENCE HOW I
UNDERSTAND IT IS I AGREE WITH
DIVERSIFYING TAX BASE TO TRY TO
REDUCE RISK.
>> I WOULD SAY DIVERSIFY KIND
OF LIKE ANY KIND OF REVENUE
SOURCES FOR ANY ORGANIZATION
RIGHT.
>> THAT YOU CAN TRY TO BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE RESILIENT.
THE QUESTION I JUST HAVE IS HOW
IS HOW IS THIS SENTENCE GOING
TO BE INTERPRETED AND
OPERATIONALIZED IN THE FUTURE?
>> IT FEELS TO ME TO KIND
OF LIKE WHAT WE JUST DISCUSSED
LIKE IT'S MAKING A POLICY
STATEMENT I'M OK WITH THE PAGE
OVERALL AND I'M ALSO OK WITH I
MEAN IT'S PRESENTING ITS
BACKGROUND.
>> I BUT I'M OK WITH DELETING
THAT SENTENCE BECAUSE I AGREE
WITH WHAT YOU JUST SAID TOO.
LIKE I'M NOT SURE ACCOMPLISHING
IN THIS SECTION.
YEAH, I THINK MY CONCERN IS IF
WE AGREE WITH THE OVERALL
PREMISE OF DIVERSIFYING THE TAX
BASE THEN SHOULDN'T THE PLAN
THEN FOLLOW THAT SO THAT THAT
GETS US BACK TO THE
RESURRECTION OF DISTRICTS THAT
WE REMOVE THAT THAT THAT IS MY
POSITION.
YEAH.
WHICH IS WHY AND THEN THE
PROPERTY TAX LIKE BECAUSE I
LOOKED THIS BECAUSE I WAS
TRYING TO MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTOOD WHAT WAS SAYING
OF LIKE OVERALL LIKE SIXTY SIX
PERCENT OF THE PROPERTY OR
OF THE TAX REVENUE IS PROPERTY
TAX AND THEN OF THAT WHAT IS
THE PROPORTION THAT ARE LARGE
APARTMENT WHICH ACTUALLY GO TO
COMMERCIAL VERSUS FOUR UNITS
AND LESS BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
WE DIVIDE ALL THE WAY DOWN TO
SINGLE UNIT THOUGH WE COULD
SOMEONE COULD PROBABLY RUN AN
ANALYSIS TO TELL US HOW MUCH
THE SINGLE UNITS VERSUS SMALL
SCALE UNITS PRODUCE IN PROPERTY
TAX.
BUT MY CONCERN WITH THIS IS IF
THE GOAL IS A DIVERSIFICATION
THEN THAT GIVES CREDENCE OR
CREDIBILITY OR SUPPORT TO
RESURRECT SOMETHING WE'VE
ALREADY REMOVED.
>> SO I THINK YOU'RE HITTING ON
LIKE EXACTLY WHAT IT IS THAT WE
NEED TO RECONCILE AS A AS A
COMMISSION AT LEAST.
>> BUT I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT
YOU AS PART OF THIS YOU THE
PLAN CURRENTLY RECOGNIZES OTHER
MEASURES.
YOU'VE THIS COMMISSION HAS THAT
WE DON'T WANT TO USE LAND USE
TO DRIVE THIS DECISION.
SO THAT'S WHAT YOUR YOUR
RECOMMENDATIONS AND EDITORS
HAVE SAID THOROUGHLY.
BUT AS MR. GIANT CAME AND SAID
THERE MIGHT BE OTHER TOOLS TO
DO THAT MIGHT BE THE USE
OF INCENTIVES THAT MIGHT BE THE
USE OF OTHER THINGS THAT MIGHT
BE THE CITY'S STRATEGICALLY
INVESTING IN PROPERTY OR
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES.
SO I THINK I'VE I THINK BOTH
CAN BE TRUE ACTUALLY.
I THINK THAT THIS CAN BE A GOAL
BUT THE CITY CAN SAY BUT IT'S
NOT SO CRITICAL THAT WE'RE
GOING TO USE LAND USE AS A TOOL
IN ORDER TO FURTHER IT SO I
AGREE THOUGH GENERALLY WITH THE
SENTIMENT THAT I THINK THERE'S
A LOT OF DATA HERE STRIKING
THAT SENTENCE DOESN'T
INVALIDATE THE BACKGROUND DATA.
IT'S SORT OF DOES FEEL TO ME IN
A SIMILAR VEIN OF IT'S SORT
OF DANCING INTO POLICY
DISCUSSION.
SO MAYBE THE ANSWER IS JUST TO
STRIKE THAT SENTENCE AND LET
THE DATA LIVE.
OH YEAH.
I FOUND THIS PAGE REALLY
CONFUSING THE WAY THIS WAS
PRESENTED AND I GIVE YOU SOME
PRETTY DETAILED COMMENTS MAYBE
MAYBE THOSE ARE HELPFUL ENOUGH
.
I DON'T MIND.
I MEAN WE'RE WE'RE CURLIER
PLACING AN EMPHASIS ON THE
HOUSING CRISIS BUT THERE'S
STILL A LOT OF ROOM IN THE PLAN
FOR DEVELOPING NEIGHBORHOOD
COMMERCIAL AND OTHER THINGS
THAT WILL WOULD HAVE THE EFFECT
OF HELPING TO JUSTIFY THE TAX
BASE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, MAYBE IN THE
SPIRIT OF GIVING A BACKGROUND,
I DON'T THINK IT'S A BAD THING
FOR THIS PLANE TO POINT OUT
DEPENDENT THE CITY IS ON
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX AND
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
IT'S NOT A BAD THING TO POINT
OUT TO THE EXTENT THERE ARE
OTHER WHEN USES AND ACTIVITIES
HAPPENING THAT WOULD DIVERSIFY
THE TAX BASE.
I DON'T I WOULD THAT'S A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD STATEMENT.
WE'RE WAS GETTING INTO TROUBLE
DRIVING THE WELL FIRST OF ALL,
I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE
SENTIMENT THE WAY IT WAS
WRITTEN BUT IT STARTED TO SOUND
LIKE A POLICY GOAL STATEMENT
HERE.
SO PERSONALLY I WOULD BE OK
JUST REFRAMING IT TO POINT OUT
ADDING TO, YOU KNOW, OTHER
THINGS HAPPENING IN THE CITY
COULD HELP DIVERSIFY IT
ECONOMIC NOT HAVE IT LIKE A
POLICY OR DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
AND THEN I FIND THE GRAPHIC
COMPLETELY CONFUSING.
I THINK IT WAS MISLABELED OR
SOMETHING AND SO PLEASE LOOK AT
MY COMMENTS HERE.
>> OK, THEY'RE FIXING IT.
I THINK WHAT IT DOESN'T DO
WHICH IS MAYBE A CONNECTION WE
COULD MAKE BETTER IF YOU ALL
WOULD LIKE IS LIKE I THINK THE
PURPOSE OF OF HIGHLIGHTING THIS
IS TO SHOW THAT LIKE TAXES
RESIDENTIAL TAX IS A PART
OF THE AFFORDABILITY CRISIS.
>> RIGHT.
WE'VE HEARD A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY
THAT AS WELL.
SO I DON'T THINK IT EXPLICITLY
TIES THAT HERE.
BUT THE REASON THAT ONE OF THE
REASONS WE'RE LOOKING INTO THAT
IS BECAUSE SOME PEOPLE CAN'T
EVEN AFFORD THE TAXES.
>> RIGHT.
AND THAT'S CONTRIBUTING TO
HOUSING UNAFFORDABILITY.
>> UM, BUT I GUESS WHAT I'M
HEARING IS THAT THERE IS
CONSENSUS THAT WE CAN TAKE A
VOTE ON JUST ADHERING TO THIS
DEBATE.
THIS ONE SENTENCE.
>> YEAH, I THINK THERE'S
AGREEMENT ON THAT.
OK, I DON'T THINK THERE'S TO
DEBATE THE THING I WOULD LIKE
TO ADD SORRY AND I DIDN'T CATCH
TILL WE GOT HERE IS CAN WE
UPDATE FOOTNOTE FOUR TO
ACTUALLY BE THE CORRECT SOURCE
WHICH IS THE ECONOMIC RELIANCE
ON ANCHOR INSTITUTIONS REPORT
FROM THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
OF PHILADELPHIA SO THAT PEOPLE
CAN LOOK THAT UP THEMSELVES.
IT JUST SAYS THE FEDERAL
RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA OH
OK.
IT'S SMALL.
>> OK, CREDIT THANK YOU ON THIS
PAGE ACTUALLY THERE THAT'S
WHERE THE NEXT EDIT COMES AND
IT IS UM THE DISCUSSION HERE
OF UM I THINK IT'S THE THE
REFERENCE TO THIRTEEN PERCENT
OF THE LAND OR DOES IT SAY THIS
IS ME TO WHERE I WAS POINTING
OUT THAT THE SENTENCE MOST
OF THE CITY IS ALREADY
DEVELOPED AND MOST OF THE
SEARCHING THAT THE LAND IS
AVAILABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT.
>> THAT'S ONLY IF YOU THINK
THAT ONCE IT'S BEEN DEVELOPED
WE'RE DONE AND THAT'S AN
INCORRECT STATEMENT AND WE IT'S
IT'S HAPPENED IN THE PAST
PERIODICALLY AND IT'S A BAD
FRAMING.
I THINK WHAT IT'S MISSING IS
IT'S SUPPOSED TO SAY LIKE WE'RE
LIKE MAJOR NEW LIKE THERE'S
ONLY ENOUGH LAND.
THERE'S THIRTEEN PERCENT I
THINK THEY'RE LIKE LARGER
PARCELS FOR A MAJOR NEW
DEVELOPMENT AND NOT TO TAKE
AWAY FROM THE FACT THAT LIKE A
PERSON BY PERSON COULD BE
REDEVELOPED.
>> THAT'S ACTUALLY PART OF WHAT
WE'RE GOING FOR INFILL.
WELL YEAH I THINK I THINK IT'S
ACTUALLY GETTING TO THE FACT
THAT OF ALL OF THE LAND THAT WE
ARE TRYING TO ENFORCE THE
REGULATORY STRUCTURE THAT'S
BASICALLY ZONED MOST OF ITS AH
ONE IN OUR TWO SO IT COULD IT
COULD BE CAN BE REWRITTEN.
>> YEAH OK.
>> LIKE WHEN YOU TAKE THE CITY
SO MUCH AND IT'S EXEMPT AND
OF THAT ONLY A RELATIVELY SMALL
PORTION I THINK I THINK THAT I
DON'T THINK THE TERM SORT
OF REDEVELOPMENT IS RIGHT TERM
THAT IS PROBABLY REDEVELOP THE
AD FOR A HIGHER DENSITY OR
THERE'S SOME CHARACTERIZATION
OF THAT THAT THERE'S MORE
POTENTIAL IN THAT AND SO MAYBE
JUST MORE CLARIFICATION ON
THAT.
I GUESS I'M PUSHING BACK A
LITTLE BIT ON THE IDEA THAT THE
CITY IS BUILT OUT OF GREED AND
IT'S KIND OF PHRASING THAT
SUGGESTS THAT WE'RE WELL WE CAN
STOP IS NOT GOING TO HELP US
DEAL WITH THE PROBLEMS DOING.
BUT THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I WAS
YEAH.
BUT ISN'T THERE SOMETHING THAT
THAT'S WHAT'S DRIVING THIS
RIGHT HORIZONTALLY?
>> WE'RE NOT WE'VE EXPANDED AS
FAR AS WE CAN IS IS SO SO WE
ARE OUR FRONTIERS HAVE REACHED
THEIR EXTREMES NOW WE HAVE TO
FIGURE OUT HOW WE'RE GOING TO
USE THOSE THOSE LANDS.
RIGHT.
SO I THINK YEAH YOU'RE RIGHT
BELLTOWER IS NOT THE RIGHT TERM
BUT I DO THINK THAT THERE'S A
RECOGNITION OF THAT GEOGRAPHY
IS YEAH.
THAT'S WHY EVERYTHING'S
EVERYTHING'S GOING TO BE HARD.
YEAH.
BECAUSE IT'S THE SECOND TIME
AROUND.
>> SO WE HAVE BIG OPEN SPACE.
>> WE HAVE EXPANDED AS FAR
HORIZONTALLY AS WE CAN GO AND
AND THAT'S A POINT WHERE MAKING
BUT I DON'T WANT IT TO BE
FRAMED IN SUCH A WAY THAT
THEREFORE WE HAVE TO STOP
BECAUSE THERE'S NO PLACE LEFT
TO DEVELOP.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, I THINK WE CAN WORK ON
THAT.
SO THAT WAS EVERYBODY'S IN
AGREEMENT I PRESUME WITH THAT
SENTIMENT.
>> YEAH, YEAH, YEAH.
I THINK A MORE CAREFUL
RESTATEMENT THIS IS I THINK
APPROPRIATE HERE.
>> OK, I JUST HAVE A FORMATTING
THING THAT I DON'T KNOW IF
WE'VE SAID THIS BUT THINGS LIKE
BULLETS OR SOMETHING MIGHT BE
HELPFUL IN THIS AND I KNOW
WHERE WE'VE REMOVED SOME OF THE
CARTOONS MAYBE THERE'S ROOM BUT
SOME OF THIS IT I THINK LIKE IF
SOME OF THESE THINGS WERE
BROKEN OUT AS BULLET POINTS
RATHER THAN JUST PARAGRAPHS, IT
MIGHT BE A LITTLE EASIER TO SEE
OR KIND OF FIND LIKE OVER HALF
OF OUR BUDGET COMES FROM
PROPERTY TAXES THAT COULD BE A
LOT SMALLER SCALE RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY IS LIKE THE PARAGRAPHS
ARE A LITTLE DENSE.
SO THAT'S JUST IF THERE'S ROOM
TO DO THAT.
BUT THAT'S MR. WE BACK UP JUST
ONE SECOND.
I THINK WHAT WOULD HELP ME IN
THE
FIRST PARAGRAPH WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IN OUR BUDGET
COMING FIFTY TWO PERCENT FROM
PROPERTY TAX IS THAT THERE'S NO
BASELINE REFERENCE POINT THERE
WHICH SAYS THAT THAT'S UNUSUAL
FOR A CITY OUR SIZE OR I HAVE
NO IDEA IF THAT'S TYPICAL AND I
KNOW ACTUALLY THAT THESE THINGS
VARY DRASTICALLY STATE BY STATE
BASED ON STATE LAW.
>> SO I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO
KIND OF JUST CLAIMING THAT
THAT'S AN EXTREME NOT REALLY
CITING OR REFERENCING ANYTHING
BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO HAVE A REFERENCE POINT THERE
IF POSSIBLE.
THANKS.
>> OK, AND BEFORE WE MOVE ON,
ONE THING THAT YOU SAID A FEW
MINUTES AGO, MICHEL, THAT WAS
REALLY IMPORTANT AND I DON'T
KNOW IF IT BELONGS IN THIS
CHAPTER BUT IT'S SORT OF A
DIFFERENT TAKE ON THE FACT THAT
WE REALLY HIGH PROPERTY TAXES
AND THAT IT'S THAT IT MAKES
HOUSING THAT MUCH MORE
UNAFFORDABLE.
DO WE TALK ABOUT THAT ELSEWHERE
BECAUSE I CAN'T REMEMBER AND
NOT I DON'T KNOW IF WHAT YOU
SAID WAS GREAT.
SO GO BACK, REVIEW THE TAPES.
I THINK WE ONLY TALK ABOUT IT
WHEN THAT CONVERSATION WE HAD
ABOUT UM WELL I DEFINITELY
REFERENCED IT IN THE APPENDIX
OF UM WHEN PROPERTY TAX BECOMES
UNCAP RIGHT.
IF SOMEONE WERE TO MOVE INTO A
NEW PROPERTY AND SO THAT THAT
THAT NEW RATE COULD BE
UNAFFORDABLE AND IT KEEPS
PEOPLE IN HOMES THAT WOULD
USUALLY WE WOULD CYCLE THROUGH
THAT CEILING.
OTHER DISCUSSION I KNOW OF SO I
CAN AND OR TELL THEM TO END
THAT POINT OR LINK IT TO
AFFORDABILITY BUT IT'S IT'S
KIND OF A DOUBLE EDGED SWORD SO
IT DOES KEEP PEOPLE IN THEIR
HOMES BECAUSE THEY CAN'T AFFORD
TO PAY, THEY CAN'T AFFORD TO
BUY ANYTHING AND THEN PAY THE
TAXES ON THAT THING AT THE RATE
THAT IS SO SHOCKINGLY HIGHER TO
THEM.
>> BUT SO BUT THE FACT THAT WE
RELY SO MUCH ON PROPERTY TAX
MAKES THINGS SO MUCH MORE
UNAFFORDABLE FOR FIRST TIME
BUYERS OR ENTRY BUYERS, WHEREAS
IT'S A SIGNIFICANT BREAK FOR
INCUMBENT HOMEOWNERS.
>> SO IT'S IT'S WE COULD BE
MORE PRECISE ABOUT THE MANY
KINDS OF YEAH.
>> IT MAKES IT MORE AFFORDABLE
TO YOU IF YOU ARE ALREADY HERE
BUT IT KEEPS YOU IN YOUR HOUSE
THAT MAY YOU MAY OUTSIZE YOU
AND IT'S REALLY BAD FOR FIRST
TIME HOMEBUYERS BECAUSE YOU
KNOW YEAH.
WHAT DO YOU DO.
YEAH IF YOU CAN I THINK IF YOU
CAN WORK THEN THAT WOULD BE
REALLY POWERFUL.
>> OK THANK YOU.
JUST SOME WHILE WE'RE LIVING
HERE IT'S TWENTY ONE YEAH NO
THE MAYOR SAID SOMETHING AT A
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING THAT I
WOULD LOVE FOR US TO PROCESS IN
THIS SECTION WHICH IS HE
INDICATED THAT OUR MILITARY WAS
ACTUALLY LOWER COMPARED TO
OTHER MUNICIPALITIES BUT THE
VALUE OF OUR PROPERTY WAS
HIGHER.
SO THAT'S WHY THE TAXES ARE SO
SIGNIFICANT AND I DON'T KNOW
LIKE IT WAS A STATEMENT THAT HE
MADE.
SO IF WE THINK THAT THAT IS A
HELPFUL WAY FOR PEOPLE TO
UNDERSTAND SO WE HAD A
COMMENTER EARLIER WHO WAS
TALKING ABOUT THEIR TAXES AND
SO I TALKED TO THEM DURING THE
BREAK AND THEY TOLD ME HOW MUCH
THEY PAY IN TAXES BECAUSE THEY
JUST BOUGHT LAST YEAR AND IT IS
THREE TIMES WHAT I PAY FOR MY
SINGLE FAMILY HOME AND THEY ARE
OK WITH THAT BECAUSE THEY
RECOGNIZE WE LIVE IN A SOCIETY
AND WE PAY FOR THINGS THROUGH
TAXES SO THEY'RE HAPPY TO USE
THEIR TAXES TO DO THAT EVEN
THOUGH THEY DON'T HAVE KIDS
THAT UTILIZE ALL OF THE TAXES
LIKE THE SCHOOLS.
BUT I THINK IT IS HELPFUL TO
PROCESS THAT.
AND THEN WHILE WE'RE IN THIS
SECTION IT IF WE WANT TO MAKE
THIS CLEARER FOR FOLKS THE ONE
THING THAT WAS HELPFUL FOR ME
WAS THE TAX PRODUCTION PER ACRE
THAT OFTEN COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES PRODUCE MORE TAXES
PER ACRE AND THAT HAS BEEN A
HELPFUL SORT OF UNDERSTANDING
OF WHY DENSITY HAS EXTRA
BENEFITS.
SO IN CONTRAST THE STANDARD PER
ACRE PAYS MORE IN TAXES THAN
BRIARWOOD MORE OK.
YES, BUT BUT AGAIN I 100
PERCENT AGREE WITH THAT.
WHAT BUT PUT THOSE TAXES AROUND
THE BURDEN OF RENTERS AND SO WE
THAT DOES ADD TO OUR
AFFORDABILITY ISSUES THAT I
DON'T THINK THAT'S IN DEBATE.
I AGREE AND I MADE THAT POINT
DURING THE COMMISSIONER
RESPONSE PERIOD WHICH IS
ACTUALLY OUR RENTERS ARE
PROBABLY PAYING A HIGHER
PORTION OF TAXES COMPARED TO
SINGLE FAMILY OR EXCUSE ME
SINGLE DWELLING UNIT OWNERS OR
OUR LIVING ON THIS PAGE.
WE DON'T HAVE TO THINKING ABOUT
WHEN WE COME IN EARLIER ABOUT
WE'RE THIS IS ALL BACKGROUND
EXPLANATION I THINK IS REALLY
HELPFUL BUT WHERE IS IT HEADED
AND THEN MAYBE I COULD HAVE
MADE THIS COMMENT AFTER THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS BUT WE'RE
GETTING SLAMMED BY ALL OF THESE
FOLKS WHO ARE CREATING THE
STRAW MAN THAT THE ONLY WAY
WE'RE THINKING ABOUT ADDRESSING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS BY THE
ZONING EVERYTHING AND THAT'S
NOT TRUE.
THE PLAN IS CONTEMPLATING WE
KNOW THAT THERE'S A HOUSING
COMMISSION.
WE'RE WORKING DILIGENTLY TO
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE'RE DOING OTHER THINGS THAT
WE SHOULD BE DOING AS PART OF A
COMPREHENSIVE PACKAGE.
I THINK WE SHOULD BE TALKING
SERIOUSLY ABOUT STATE WORKING
WITH THE STATE TO REFORM THE
STATE'S TAX LAWS THAT ARE
CAUSING ALL KINDS OF PROBLEMS
AND I DON'T HONESTLY KNOW WHAT
THAT MEANS BUT IMPLEMENTATION
MATRIX SO I WANT THIS
BACKGROUND DISCUSSION CAN BE A
WAY TO LEVERAGE OUR TAX SYSTEM
IS COMPLETELY SCREWED UP AND
IT'S MAKING IT SO MUCH HARDER
FOR US TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO DO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
LET'S EXPLAIN THAT IN THE
BACKGROUND HERE WITH THIS A
LITTLE BIT MORE NUANCED
EXPLANATION OF HOW THAT'S
WORKING BECAUSE THEN THAT
LEVERAGES WE ARE TRYING TO
PROMOTE A COMPREHENSIVE
APPROACH TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN ONE OF THAT IS GOING TO HAVE
TO BE TALKING TO THE STATE
ABOUT REFORMING TAX.
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE LAYING THE GROUNDWORK
THAT DOESN'T NEED TO BE
MENTIONED HERE BUT IT NEEDS TO
PROVIDE THE BACKGROUND TO
JUSTIFY THAT AS ONE OF THE
ELEMENTS THAT YEAH.
>> IS THAT OK THEN?
YES.
CHAPTER TWO PAGES THAT WE'RE
NOT LIVING THERE OK, WELL THIS
IS A BIG ONE I THINK SO PAGE
THIRTY EIGHT AND THE REQUEST IS
WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE TO ADD A
PAGE REGARDING HOW THE PLAN
RESPONDS TO THE TAKEAWAYS OR
HOW A STABLISH IN OUR POLICIES
ADDRESS SOME OF THE CONCERN?
AND I BELIEVE THIS IS ALSO IN
REFERENCE TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION RESOLUTION THAT IS
LINKED HERE IN YOUR PACKET.
>> LET ME GO TO PAGE.
CAN I ASK COUNCIL MEMBER DISH?
MY UNDERSTANDING WAS IT WAS
JUST IN YOUR PACKET AS A REPORT
FROM COMMISSIONS I I DID NOT
BELIEVE YOU TOOK IT UP AS A
RESOLUTION.
>> WE ABSOLUTELY DID NOT PASS
IT.
OK, SO I DON'T KNOW WHY THE
PERSON WE'RE RESPONDING RIGHT
NOW TO A COMMENT OR AND I
FORGOT TO SAY THAT IN MY
RESPONSES HAD SAID THAT THE THE
COUNCIL HAD PASSED THAT
RESOLUTION.
>> WE DIDN'T IT'S JUST IN THERE
IS NOTES BUT I IN COUNCIL DID
ASK IT TO BE FORWARDED TO THE
COMMISSIONER.
YEAH.
WE DEFINITELY MIGHT HAVE ASKED
THAT BUT WE THAT'S DIFFERENT
THAN JUST PASSING IT SO IT I
THINK IT I DON'T KNOW I THINK I
MADE A COMMENT SOMEWHERE ABOUT
THAT MEMO BUT IT WAS MORE TO
THE POINT OF WE HAVE A VERY
STRONG STORM WATER OVERLAY
DISTRICT AND I DON'T KNOW I
MEAN I THINK OUR TREE
MITIGATION IS A GOOD RULE ISN'T
IT?
YEAH.
SO JUST JUST TO RESET TO MAKE
SURE EVERYBODY I THINK VERY
HIGH LEVEL I DON'T MEAN TO
OVERSIMPLIFY PERSPECTIVES BUT
I'M GOING TO THE PLAN INTENDS
TO I THINK REALLY DOUBLE DOWN
ON WHAT YOU JUST SAID IS THAT
WE HAVE A REALLY ROBUST NATURAL
FEATURES FRAMEWORK THAT IS
EVOLVED OVER TIME.
IT'S EVOLVED OUT OF PAST
PLANNING EFFORTS AND THIS PLAN
RECOGNIZES THAT THAT CURRENT
STATE SHOULD BE MAINTAINED.
THERE ARE VOICES THAT SAY NO,
THAT SHOULD BE AN AREA WE ARE
CONTINUALLY CONTINUING TO
EVOLVE AND AND TO BE CLEAR, THE
CITY IS ALWAYS CONSIDERING
THINGS LIKE THAT.
WE ARE IN THE PROCESS
OF LOOKING AT OUR STORMWATER
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WE TALKED ABOUT SOME OF OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANS SO THERE
IS A POSSIBILITY THAT OUT
OF THOSE THINGS OTHER
RECOMMENDATIONS COULD COULD
DEVELOP.
BUT I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
THIS PLAN IN ATTEMPTING TO FIND
THIS FOCUS, REALIZING THE FULL
DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL OF THE
CITY EVEN THOUGH GEOGRAPHICALLY
WE CAN'T DOING THAT WITH OUR
CURRENT NATURAL FEATURES I
THINK IS A REASONABLE APPROACH.
BUT I THINK THIS RESOLUTION
COMES FROM A PERSPECTIVE THAT
THERE ARE PERHAPS GOALS THAT
WERE IDENTIFIED IN THE PAST
THAT WILL REMAIN UNREALIZED OR
THAT WE SHOULD REALLY
SYSTEMATIC THEY TRY TO MARCH
FORWARD ON SOME OF THOSE OR GO
FURTHER OR FARTHER ON SOME
OF THOSE.
AND SO I AGAIN DON'T WANT TO
OVERSIMPLIFY THE CONVERSATION
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSIONER
BUT JUST TO LEVEL SET THAT'S
KIND OF A BIT OF A FRAMING
OF WHERE WHERE IT IS AND I
THINK HOW THAT RESOLUTION IS
COMING TO YOU IN THAT CONTEXT.
>> YEAH, AND I'M NOT ADVOCATING
FOR A POSITION I WHAT I AM I DO
WANT TO SEE WHAT I'M NOT
ADVOCATING FOR.
I'D LIKE TO SAY THAT WHAT I'M
ADVOCATING FOR IS DO WE HAVE A
CALLOUT BOX AND AM I FORGETTING
WHERE WE SAY SOME OF THE
HIGHLIGHTS
OF THE THING OF THE
OF WHAT WE WOULD THINK OF IS
REALLY TYPICAL ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTIONS LIKE THE STORMWATER
OVERLAY LIKE I'M SURE NONE
OF THE ALMAZ I BET LESS THAN
ONE PERCENT FEWER THAN ONE
PERCENT OF OUR RESIDENTS NO
THAT WE HAVE THAT IS PRETTY NEW
AND THEY MAY NOT KNOW HOW
AMAZING IT IS AND THEY ARE
WORRIED ABOUT FLOODING AND THEY
SHOULD BE BECAUSE THAT'S GOING
TO BE A BIG ASPECT OF CLIMATE
CHANGE IN ANN ARBOR.
SO I WAS HOPING WE COULD HAVE A
CALLOUT BOX THAT SAYS WE HAVE
THAT AND THEN MAYBE SAY A FEW
THINGS THAT'S IN OUR CURRENT
NATURAL FEATURES PLAN JUST
BECAUSE I THINK PEOPLE HEAR THE
RHETORIC ABOUT OH THERE'S GOING
TO BE ANY TREES AND WE'RE GOING
TO PAVE OVER THE WHOLE CITY AND
THEY DON'T REALIZE THAT WE'VE
WE'VE GOT CONTROLS ON THAT
ALREADY.
WE'VE BEEN WE'VE BEEN MANAGING
THAT.
AND DOES IT GO FAR ENOUGH FOR
SOME PEOPLE?
NO.
NOTHING EVER GOES FAR ENOUGH
FOR THE PERSON WHOSE VALUE IT
IS.
BUT HERE ARE THE THINGS THAT WE
DO DO BECAUSE I THINK OUR OUR
RESIDENTS DON'T ALWAYS KNOW
THAT.
I CERTAINLY KNOW THAT BEFORE I
STARTED DOING THIS EIGHTY HOURS
A WEEK EXCUSE ME UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN I BELIEVE SO IF YOU
LOOK AT PAGE EIGHTY SIX LET ME
KNOW IF YOU THINK THAT'S
SUFFICIENT.
THIS WAS TRYING TO FULFILL THE
REQUEST OF TURNING ALL OF THE
GREEN BOXES INTO MORE SPECIFIC
PROGRAMS AND POLICY OF THE CITY
AND SO THAT IS NEXT THE KEY
CONSIDERATIONS OF RESILIENCE
AND NATURAL FEATURES.
THERE'S A LARGE GREEN BOX THAT
TALKS ABOUT URBAN TREE CANOPY
STORMWATER PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT AND BIODIVERSITY.
MAYBE THEY'RE NOT AT PAGE
EIGHTY SIX AND WE CAN ADD TO
SOME OF THOSE IF YOU THINK
THEY'RE NOT ALL THERE.
SO I REMEMBER COMMISSIONER
NORTON NOW GIVING US SOME
COUNSEL HERE WHICH I THOUGHT
WAS GOOD SAYING THAT GRASS IS
NOT OPEN SPACE LIKE THAT WAS
ONE OF THE THINGS OR SOMETHING
ALONG THE ECOLOGICAL VALUE
OF GRASS AND TYING THAT BACK TO
LIKE PLACES WHERE THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSIONS NOTE
WE CAN ADAPT.
RIGHT.
SO THEY HAVE A WHOLE SECTION
UNDER GOALTEND SO TEN POINT ONE
AND TWO AND THREE AND THEN GO
FOR ONE IN FOUR TO GET STAFF
JUST EXTRACT OUT OF THIS
RECOMMENDATION WHERE YOU THINK
THERE IS ALREADY AGREEMENT.
SO LIKE FOR STORM WATER IF YOU
PLAN A RAIN GARDEN THERE'S A
BENEFIT THAT YOU WOULD RECEIVE
.
I THINK THE BIG THING I
STRUGGLE WITH IS CURRENTLY THE
UDC ONLY CARES ABOUT THIS AS IT
RELATES TO COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES NOT PRIVATE SINGLE
DETACHED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
PROPERTIES.
RIGHT.
SO A NON SITE PLAN COULD CLEAR
ALL THEIR TREES JUST TODAY
BECAUSE THE UDC DOESN'T
RESTRICT.
SO UNLESS WE THINK WE SHOULD
ADD A NEW RESTRICTION ON SINGLE
DETACHED UNITS TO PREVENT THEM
FROM DOING THAT, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT DIRECTION WE CAN GO IN.
>> I MEAN I THINK THAT'S KIND
OF THE DEBATE.
I THINK SOME OF IT SOME OF THE
VOICES ARE YEAH, YOU SHOULD DO
SO.
I THINK THAT OVER TIME THERE
HAS BEEN A PERCEPTION THAT SOME
OF THAT IS HAS CHANGED BECAUSE
WE'VE IMPROVED OUR SITE PLAN
STANDARDS.
WE'VE MADE MODIFICATIONS THERE
THAT IS HAD SOME PROJECTS THAT
WOULD HAVE IN THE PAST GONE
THROUGH NATURAL RESOURCE
PROJECTIONS THAT DON'T
SPECIFICALLY THREE UNIT AND
FOUR UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
BUT WE DON'T THE UDC DOES NOT
IS NOT INTERESTED AND SINGLE
DETACHED UNITS IT IS NOW NOT IT
IS INTERESTED IT DOESN'T
REQUIRE A PLAN FOR THEM BUT SO
IT'S AT YOUR DISCRETION RIGHT.
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T CONTROL
DISCRETIONARY DISCRETION.
IT'S BUILDING PERMITS ARE
REQUIRED FOR UNITS SINGLE
FAMILY UP TO FOUR UNITS BUT THE
UDC DOES DOESN'T SO SO OUR WHAT
OUR WHAT'S OUR TOOL TO SPEAK TO
A SINGLE DETACHED DWELLING
UNITS TREE CANOPY, SOIL
COMPACTION AND YOU WOULDN'T YOU
WOULD ADVOCATE RIGHT NOW.
SO STORMARE APPLIES TO ALL
PROPERTIES SINGLE FAMILY
EVERYWHERE BUT IF YOU ONLY
ALREADY TREES RIGHT STORMWATER
ON NEW BILLS I DON'T MEAN TO
INTERRUPT YOU BUT SOMETHING
THAT'S BEING NEWLY CONSTRUCTED
OR EVEN AT TIMES ADDITIONS OK,
THIS BUT IF YOU WANTED THE UDC
RIGHT THE UDC SITE PLAN IS USED
AS A MILESTONE OR A BENCHMARK
OR A GATE IN WHICH ONCE THAT IS
INVOKED WE REQUIRE YOU TO
CONSIDER YOUR TREES RIGHT THE
WAY THAT THIS BODY COULD IMPACT
SAY WE WANT THAT TO BE LOOKED
AT FOR ALL DEVELOPMENT THAT HAS
NOT BEEN HISTORICALLY HOW WE'VE
DONE THAT.
>> SO A CLARIFYING QUESTION
THAT WOULD BE DEVELOPMENT
THAT'S NOT EXISTING SO IT WOULD
NOT PREVENT ANYONE TODAY.
IT'S LIKE WE WE REQUIRE A SITE
AND FOR SOME CATEGORIES OF SITE
JUST FOR REMOVING A NATURAL
FEATURE.
>> SO THE ONLY TOOL WE HAVE IS
TO EXTEND THE SITE PLAN REVIEW
TO A PRIVATE NONCOMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT OR THERE COULD BE
OTHER THERE COULD BE OTHER
OTHER PERMIT TOOLS BUT THEY
WOULD REQUIRE SOME REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK LIKELY ARTICULATED IN
THE UDC WHICH SEEMS TO BE THE
OPPOSITE OF WHAT WE HEARD IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS WHICH
IS THE THE ENCROACHMENT OF THE
CITY INTO ALL OF THESE THINGS.
SO THIS IS THIS IS ACTUALLY
QUITE TRICKY.
YEAH.
SO I THINK COMING BACK TO THE
EDITORS, I THINK ONE ONE OF THE
REASON I HAVE IS THIS IS SORT
OF IN THIS CHAPTER TO
HIGHLIGHTING THAT WE HAVE THIS
ROBUST YES, WE DO IT LATER IN
THE DOCUMENT BUT I THINK ONE
OF THE QUESTIONS MICHELLE IS
POSING AS WE DO IT IN THE
DOCUMENT BUT WOULD YOU ALSO
LIKE IT HERE?
>> I DON'T SEE I AM LOOKING AT
THE 86 AND IT SOUNDS LIKE A LOT
OF GOALS.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT
STRAIGHTFORWARDLY SAYS WE HAVE
A PRETTY REMARKABLE AND
STORMWATER OVERLAY WE ARE
KEEPING.
WE HAVE IT THIS IS WHAT IT
PROVIDES.
THESE ARE SOME HIGHLIGHTS
OF OUR NATURAL FEATURES
WHATEVER IT'S CALLED LAND OR
YOU KNOW, THIS IS THESE ARE
HIGHLIGHTS OF WHAT WE REQUIRE
YOU TO DO FOR NATURAL FEATURES.
I THINK THAT AND THESE THIS IS
FRAMED A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENTLY
IN 86 THEY DO SOUND LIKE GOALS
.
THEY DON'T YEAH.
THESE THESE PROBABLY DO NEED TO
BE REWRITTEN BECAUSE MANY
OF THESE THINGS ARE ALREADY
BEING DONE.
>> YEAH.
SO IF THEY ALL ARE ALREADY
BEING DONE WE WANT TO SAY THAT
AND AND SORT OF CATEGORIZE AS
LIKE THIS IT SAYS EXISTING CITY
PROGRAMS TO PROTECT AND
IMPROVE.
>> YEAH I KNOW EXCEPT THE WAY
LIKE SO PLANNER DISTRIBUTE
THEY'RE NOT PROGRAMS THOUGH.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
DO WE DO THAT.
YEAH WE DO DO THAT SO IT
DOESN'T IT'S IT'S HARD TO TELL
FROM THE WAY IT'S PHRASED AND
AND THIS DOESN'T MENTION THE
STORMWATER OVERLAY WHICH I
THINK IS SIGNIFICANT AND IT
DOES IT DOES.
>> I MEAN THERE ARE UH OK YEAH
BUT I MEAN I THINK I DON'T WANT
TO I DON'T WANT TO LIVE HERE.
I THINK YOU CAN LOOK AT IT AND
AND UNDER AND BUT THE THING
ABOUT I THINK I HAD ASKED IF
THERE COULD BE ANOTHER TRIGGER
OTHER THAN SITE PLAN BUT I
DIDN'T REALLY MEAN THAT WE
SHOULD SIT HERE AND DECIDE THAT
QUESTION BECAUSE THE FACT IS
THAT WE ARE TRYING TO
STREAMLINE DEVELOPMENT BY NOT
HAVING AS MANY SITE PLANS NOT
NOT HAVING AS MANY PROJECTS
NEED SITE PLANS.
SO IF SITE PLANNING IS A
TRIGGER FOR NATURAL FEATURES
PROTECTION, CLEARLY THE FOLKS
WHO LOOK CLOSELY AT THAT ARE
WORRYING THAT WE'RE PULLING
BACK AND SO IT COULD BE AN
ISSUE OF CONSIDER ANOTHER
TRIGGER YOU KNOW, OR THERE
MIGHT BE SOME PROJECT
CATEGORIES WHERE WE WANT A
BUILDING PERMIT DEPENDING ON
THE EXTENSIVENESS OF SOMETHING
OR OTHER THAT WOULD NOT BE
EXTENDING IT WOULD BE
COMPENSATING FOR THE THINGS
THAT THAT MIGHT BE SEEN AS
WITHDRAWN.
BUT THIS IS SOMETHING NOT TO BE
DECIDED TONIGHT OR IN THE CLUB.
IT'S JUST TO BE SAID WE MIGHT
CONSIDER A TRIGGER OTHER THAN
SITE PLANNING FOR CERTAIN
PROJECTS AND PROBABLY THAT
SHOULDN'T EVEN BE IN HERE.
BUT JUST THE IDEA THAT WE'RE WE
OBVIOUSLY HAVE A COMMITMENT TO
IT AND HERE'S ALL THE THINGS IS
IMPORTANT.
>> SO YEAH, SORRY I SHOULDN'T
EVEN MENTION HAVING ANOTHER
TERM BECAUSE WE'D ALL BE THAT
LET'S GET BACK TO THIS THE
DOCUMENT FROM WHERE I SIT ON
PAGE EIGHTY SIX I DON'T SEE ANY
LIKE I ACTUALLY BE IN SUPPORT
OF ELISE EXPLAINING PORTIONS
OF THIS SAYS THAT THE CURRENT
NATURAL FEATURES LIKE HE
EXPLAINED THE NATURAL FEATURES
TRANSITION I TO SAY THAT THE
CURRENT NATURAL FEATURES MASTER
PLAN DOCUMENT THAT WAS APPROVED
IN 2004 OR IS BEING REPLACED BY
THE SCHOOL IT IT'S SHORTER BUT
THERE I THINK I THINK STAFF CAN
USE THEIR DISCRETION TO SAY
HEY, WE CAN TAKE SOME OF THESE
SUGGESTIONS AND PUT THEM ON
PAGE EIGHTY SIX.
IT HELPS EXPLAIN THE CONTEXT A
LITTLE BIT BETTER I THINK.
I MEAN I WANT TO JUST GIVE
CREDENCE TO THIS MEMO AND TO ME
I'M LIKE THERE ISN'T YEAH.
LOSS OF NATURAL FEATURES
OF HEALTH, ECONOMIC ESTHETIC,
EDUCATIONAL CONSEQUENCES.
I WOULD SAY THAT WE SHOULD PUT
SOME OF THESE MEMOS AND
TRANSITION CONTEXTUAL NOTES
INTO EIGHTY-SIX AND THEN ALSO
AND ADD SOME OF THE PROGRAMS WE
CURRENTLY ALREADY HAVE SO IT
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE LIKE A COPY
AND PASTE DROP THE ENTIRE THING
IN BUT I THINK THERE'S NUGGETS
OF IT THAT MORE THAN ACTUALLY
APT IN TERMS OF CREATING FLOW
AND CONTEXT.
I I THINK ALSO OUR MIND IS SET
ON PAGES FIVE, SIX AND SEVEN.
WE GO THROUGH ALL THE OTHER
PLANS THAT ARE INFORMING THIS
PLAN ONES ARE BEING REPLACED.
>> YEAH, I REQUESTED THAT WHOLE
THING BE REWRITTEN BUT LIKE
ONES THAT ARE BEING
INCORPORATED, WONDROUS ONES
WHICH ARE BEING RETAINED, ONES
WHICH WE WILL ALIGN WITH AND I
THINK THERE ARE SOME MISSING
DOCUMENTS HERE SO WE COULD ALSO
ADD THE NATURAL FEATURES MASTER
PLAN TO THIS LIST OF PLANS THAT
WE ARE LOOKING AT OR OR
CONTINUING TO REGARD AND I
THINK IT GOT DROPPED.
BUT I ALSO HAD SUGGESTED THAT
WE HAD THE THE RIDE TWENTY
FORTY FIVE LONG RANGE PLAN AND
AND MAYBE THE DENHA LIKE IT
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S OTHER THINGS
THAT MAY BE MISSING HERE TO IT
MIGHT BE UNDER THE STAFF LIKE
IT MIGHT JUST BE UNDER CHANGES
WE SAID SURE WE'LL DO I DON'T
SEE IT THERE THAT'S NOT MY NAME
BECAUSE LIKE MAYBE THE NATURAL
FEATURES CHANGE TO BE CLEAR WE
RETAIN THE NATURAL FEATURES
PLAN RATHER THAN REPLACING IT.
>> WELL THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO GET
CLARIFICATION.
>> OH ACTUALLY SORRY I DIDN'T
SEE ON THE LIST I THOUGHT IT
WAS MISSING ALTOGETHER.
NO I SEE IT THERE.
WELL IF IT'S GOING TO BE
REPLACED THEN YEAH MY ARMY LET
ME GET BACK TO THE ORIGINAL
QUESTION WAS WOULD IT BE I WANT
TO SPEAK.
OH YEAH SURE THAT'S THE
QUESTION ON PAGE THIRTY EIGHT
WE GOT STARTED BECAUSE YOU ARE
ASKED CAN WE ADD A BREAKOUT.
SO I HAVE ONE QUESTION AND THEN
A SUGGESTION THE QUESTION IS
YOU ALSO PROVIDED IN THE PACKET
A SUMMARY OF THE FEEDBACK HEARD
MORE RECENTLY SHOULD THAT BE
FOLDED INTO THIS CAN'T YEAH WE
CAN.
>> I THINK WE CAN DO THAT.
I THINK YOU FIND A LOT OF IT
PRETTY SIMILAR.
>> YEAH.
SO I WOULD FOR THAT FEEDBACK
INTO THIS PRESENTATION AND THEN
I WOULDN'T I THINK EVERYTHING
THAT'S BEING RAISED IS
ADDRESSED SOMEWHERE IN THE PLAN
RIGHT FROM THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION RESOLUTION ALL
OF THESE BOXES ARE SOMETHING IN
THE PLAN THAT'S RESPONDING TO
ALL OF THE SUMMARIES OF KEY
THEMES AND TAKEAWAYS.
RIGHT.
I WOULD JUST ADD UNDERNEATH
EACH BULLET PARENTHETICALLY SEE
THESE PARTS OF THE PLAN OR C
PENULT.
>> OH YEAH.
SEE PAGE EIGHTY SIX.
YEAH I'M TRYING TO RESPOND TO
THE COMMENTS HE ASKED CAN WE
RESPOND TO THESE RIGHT HERE AND
SEPARATELY THROUGH A SEPARATE
PAGE IN MY RESPONSE TO BE NO
THAT DOESN'T MAKE A DIFFERENCE
SO MAKE A NOTE WHERE THESE
THINGS ARE SPOKEN TO IN THE
PLAN AND I GUESS THAT THAT IS
MY COMMENT THAT THE ANSWER IS
NO.
I DON'T WANT TO ADD A PAGE ON
THIRTY EIGHT BUT RATHER JUST
ADD REFERENCES AND THEN IN
RESPONSE TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION MEMO BUFFET AND USE
SOME OF THAT MATERIAL IN PAGE
86 AND CREATE JUST THE
REFERENCE I DON'T THINK WE
NEEDED TO ADD A NEW PAGE.
>> DOES THAT HELP TO CLARIFY
I'M TRYING TO RESPOND TO THE
QUESTION YES AND I WOULD FOLD
IN THE FEEDBACK THAT YOU'VE
SHARED WITH US TONIGHT FROM
YOUR MOST RECENT ROUND.
THEN THE OTHER QUESTION I ASKED
MICHELLE AND YOU'VE TOLD ME
THAT THERE'S A LONG LIST
OF MORE DETAILED ARRAY
OF PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
THAT YOU'VE BEEN DOCUMENTING.
OH, WHERE IS THAT GOING?
SO IF YOU'V NOTICED CHAPTER
THREE IS NOT ON HERE AND THAT'S
BECAUSE OF THE ENGAGEMENT
SECTION AND WE'RE CURRENTLY I
THINK WE'RE ENVISIONING IT AS
AN APPENDIX THAT REALLY
OUTLINES EVERY SINGLE ACTIVITY
THAT WE DID OUR OUTREACH
METHOD, THE SUMMARY OF WHAT IT
SAID ABOUT HOW MANY PEOPLE
SHOWED UP.
UM AND SO I THINK WE FELT LIKE
THAT'S GOING TO ANSWER MANY
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT CAME UP
FROM COMMISSIONER IS ABOUT
ENGAGEMENT FOR CHAPTER THREE
THAT IS CLOSE TO DONE BUT IT'S
LIKE IT'S LIKE SEVENTY PAGES.
>> OH BLESS YOUR HEART BUT IT
IS AN APPENDIX AND JUST
REFERENCE IT AND THEN JUST
FLESH FLESH THIS SUMMARY OF KEY
THEMES AND TAKEAWAYS BY ADDING
IN WHATEVER IF THERE'S ANYTHING
MORE IN THE MOST RECENT EDITION
YOU GUYS JUST SHARED WITH US TO
FOLD INTO THIS AND IF YOU CAN I
MEAN WE HEARD SOME PRETTY
POWERFUL STATEMENTS ON BOTH
SIDES TONIGHT OF THE DEBATE IN
THE PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> ALL OF THE ISSUES I MEAN
THERE WERE SOME VERY ARTICULATE
WE WERE GETTING MORE SO I HAVE
TO SAY A LOT OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS WERE MADE GETTING
THERE'S A LOT OF SPECULATIVE
STATEMENTS AND A LOT
OF STRAWMAN ARGUMENTS AND A LOT
OF NAME CALLING AND A LOT OF AD
HOMINEM ATTACKS AND THAT'S
FRUSTRATING.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO A LOT
OF CREDIBLE STATEMENTS ABOUT
THE CHALLENGES WE'RE FACING IN
THE FOLKS BOTH PROMOTING MORE
DENSITY AND DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE
THEY SEE THE BENEFITS AND FOLKS
WHO ARE REALLY CONCERNED ABOUT
WHAT COULD HAPPEN.
AND I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT ALL OF THOSE SENSIBILITIES
ARE RECOGNIZED HERE.
SO YOU DID A SHOT OF THAT IN
THE THING THAT YOU HEARD IN THE
PACKAGE TONIGHT.
BUT THERE WERE SOME MORE
COMMENTS TONIGHT THAT I THOUGHT
WERE INSIGHTFUL.
>> SO IT'S WORTH JUST A QUICK
SPIN THROUGH HERE.
WE WILL KEEP IN MIND THAT THE
AGGREGATE BUT IF IF THERE IS
SOMETHING NEW THAT WE THINK IS
WORTHWHILE, WE CAN YEAH.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN AND THEN MAKE SURE
THAT'S REFLECTED AND THEN JUST
NOTE HERE, YOU KNOW HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY SAE CHAPTER THREE
OR WHATEVER.
>> WELL YEAH.
LET'S MAKE SURE CAN YOU REPEAT
BACK WHAT YOU HAVE TAKEN FROM
THIS AND OF YEAH.
SO WHAT I AM SO WHAT I AM
HEARING IS CONTINUE TO MAKE
SURE THAT 38 IS INCLUSIVE
OF THE LANGUAGE REPRESENTATIVE
TO BE CLEAR THAT OUR SUMMER
ABOUT AS SOME AND TAKEAWAYS
THAT WE'VE BEEN TALKING TO
PEOPLE FOR YEARS NOW.
AND SO YES WE WILL CONSIDER THE
COMMENTS THAT I HEARD TONIGHT
AND THAT WE HAVE REPORTED ON TO
TRY TO MAKE SURE THAT THOSE ARE
FRAMED.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE A TALLY
BUT WE WILL TRY AND WE WILL
MAKE SURE WE WILL REVIEW THOSE
AND THEN AS INDICATED, THE
OTHER PIECE I'M HEARING IS WHEN
POSSIBLE MAKE A MORE DIRECT
CONNECTION LIKE HEY, IF YOU SEE
THIS WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY YOU MIGHT BE
MOST INTERESTED IN THESE OTHER
PORTIONS OF THE PLAN.
WELL, THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I'M
HEARING.
I'M NOT HEARING AT ANY AGE
ABOUT NATURAL FEATURES.
I I'M GOING TO RESERVE THE
RIGHT MAYBE WE WANT TO CALL OUT
NATURAL FEATURES MORE SO AS ONE
OF THOSE TAKEAWAYS BECAUSE
RIGHT NOW I THINK IT'S SORT
OF ROLL THAT A LITTLE BIT INTO
SUSTAINABLE QUALITY OF PLAY.
>> IT COULD CERTAINLY DO THAT.
YEAH, NO, I WAS TRYING TO MAKE
IT SIMPLER SUGGESTION FOR
BECAUSE WHAT I WAS HEARING WAS
CAN WE RESPOND TO SOME OF THESE
HERE AND I DON'T THINK THIS IS
THE PLACE TO RESPOND TO THEM
HERE.
I THINK YOU CAN SAY FOR THIS
THEME ABOUT HOUSING AND
AFFORDABILITY AFTER THAT
PARAGRAPH THIS IS ADDRESSED IN
CHAPTER THREE.
>> SO NOW THEY'VE GOT A SIGNAL
OH, THIS IS WHAT I'M REALLY
WORRIED ABOUT.
WHERE DO I GO THE PLAN TO FIND
IT THAT'S INTERESTING.
YEAH.
WELL AND I ALSO THINK ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT I'VE BEEN
HEARING A LOT FROM PEOPLE ON
SUSTAINABILITY IS IF YOU BUILD
IT A LOT BLIND PEOPLE WILL TAKE
DOWN ALL THE TREES AND AND THE
THING IS IS PEOPLE COULD DO
THAT NOW AND A SINGLE FAMILY
HOME THEY COULD TAKE OUT ALL
THE TREES ON THEIR LOT.
BUT BUT THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I
HEAR OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND
THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE
REFLECTED IN HERE BECAUSE IT
IT'S IT'S NOT REALLY A PIECE
OF THIS.
SO HOW DO WE HOW DO WE RESPOND
AND SAY WELL THERE IS
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES WHEN
LIKE 30 PEOPLE ARE REALLY
WORRIED ABOUT CHANGES IN THE
SETBACKS
HOW DO WE HOW DO WE
USE THIS AS A YOU KNOW, HOW DO
WE REFER BACK TO THIS WHEN THAT
IT'S IT'S NOT A I MEAN IT COULD
HAPPEN ON A SITE BUT IT COULD
HAPPEN ON SITES NOW AND SO LIKE
IF THAT'S SOMEBODY'S MAIN
CONCERN, HOW DO WE HOW DO WE
RESPOND TO THAT AND SAY WELL
THERE'S SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
PLAN BUT TO REFER THEM TO
THAT'S NOT GOING TO FEEL LIKE
ENOUGH?
>> WELL, SHORT OF YOU
PRIORITIZING ONE OF THOSE OVER
THE OTHER.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THE PLANE CAN
DO THAT RIGHT.
I MEAN THAT IS A FUNDAMENTAL
FACT IF IF WE ARE MORE FLEXIBLE
WITH SETBACKS YOU HAVE THE
POTENTIAL TO LIKELY REALIZE
MORE UNITS WHICH IS GOING TO
CREATE MORE SUSTAINABILITY FROM
A TRANSPORTATION PERSPECTIVE,
FROM A PROXIMITY PERSPECTIVE,
MAYBE FROM AN ENERGY EFFICIENCY
PERSPECTIVE THAT IS GOING TO
RESULT IN LESS SPACES ON A SITE
FOR NATURAL RESOURCES TO BE
RETAINED AND POTENTIALLY STILL
GOING TO HAVE TO MEET OUR
REQUIREMENTS.
>> THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
MEET OUR STORMWATER.
BUT I THINK MAYBE THAT'S KIND
OF THE KEY IS IT'S NOT LIKE
IT'S NOT LIKE THERE'S NOTHING
IT'S NOT LIKE EVERYBODY'S JUST
SAYING OH FINE, YOU CAN DO
WHATEVER YOU WANT.
YOU CAN POUR GREASE DOWN THE
WATER.
YOU CAN DO LIKE LIKE WE STILL
HAVE REQUIREMENTS AND STILL
HAVE STANDARDS AND STILL AND IT
MAY NOT BE RELATIVE TO A
PARTICULAR TREE BUT OVERALL
THAT'S STILL A KEY PART OF OUR
WE STILL REGULATE LANDMARK
TREES AND WOODLANDS AND BUT I
THINK BUT I THINK YOU'RE
HITTING ON A REAL AS YOU SAID
AND THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE HEARING
A LOT OF THAT'S A LOT
OF TENSION.
RIGHT, BECAUSE THERE ARE
TRADEOFFS TO AMATEUR MY
PLANNING BOOK IS GOING TO BE
YOU CAN'T HAVE IT ALL.
IT'S REALLY HARD.
IS IT REALLY HARD TO ACCOMPLISH
EVERYTHING EVERYWHERE ON ONE
SIDE?
AND SO I THINK THAT RESIDENTS
APPRECIATE HONESTY ABOUT THERE
ARE TRADEOFFS.
AND SO ONE OF THE EDITS THAT I
GAVE WAS LET'S GIVE THEM A REAL
BOX ABOUT YEAH, WE GOT COLORIZE
.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE SOME TRADE
OFFS BUT THEY AREN'T ALL GOING
TO BE ZERO SUM.
I THINK THIS ONE IS A GOOD ONE
THAT THE DENSITY GREATER
DENSITY VERSUS SOME LOSS IN
SOME PLACES OF NATURAL FEATURES
AND YET WE STILL REGULATE THESE
THINGS THAT KIND OF A CALLOUT
BOX COULD BE HELPFUL LIKE WHERE
RESIDENT FEEDBACK HAS
IDENTIFIED ATTENTION THAT IS
JUST THERE.
LET'S JUST TELL THEM YEAH, WE
GET IT RIGHT.
OH I KNOW.
SO WHAT'S SO WHAT'S THE
SUGGESTION?
WELL THE SUGGESTION IS THAT
CALL CALLER ABOUT SOMEWHERE
WHETHER IT'S EIGHTY-SIX WHICH
BUILDS ON THAT BUT TO FRAME IT
AS YOU KNOW GROWTH WILL MEAN
SOME TRADE OFFS WITH RESPECT TO
NATURAL FEATURES BUT
NONETHELESS THE CITY HAS THE
FOLLOWING PROTECTIONS.
>> I KNOW WELL I MEAN BUT IT'S
TRUE THOUGH, RIGHT?
AND RATHER THAN LEAVING A
VACUUM WHERE WE DON'T TALK
ABOUT THE TENSION, THEN WE
LEAVE A VACUUM AND WE GET
REALLY BIG STATEMENTS ABOUT HOW
THERE WON'T BE ANY TREES LEFT
AND THAT IS IMPOSSIBLE GIVEN
OUR REGULATORY FRAMEWORK.
YEAH, SO THAT'S KIND OF I WOULD
LIKE TO RESPECT THE
INTELLIGENCE OF AN ARBORIST WHO
CAN SEE TENSIONS AND THEN WE
MAY NOT ALL AGREE WHERE WE COME
OUT ON THAT BUT THAT'LL GET
WORKED OUT AND SOME THAT'LL GET
WORKED OUT IN ZONING.
>> I JUST READ THAT WE'RE QUITE
SMART.
DID YOU 96 PERCENT OF EVERYONE
OVER TWENTY FIVE HAS A GRADUATE
OR A COLLEGE DEGREE IN ANN
ARBOR.
WOW.
NEXT CLOSEST CITY IS MADISON
WITH FORTY NINE PERCENT WE READ
CHAPTER FOUR CHAPTER FOUR
THERE.
>> YES.
LET'S MOVE ON TO CHAPTER FOUR
BECAUSE WE'RE ON PAGE TWO OUT
OF NINETEEN.
>> WELL WE'RE HOPING TO ONLY
GET TO PAGE FIVE IF YOU WANT TO
ADD SOMETHING MAYBE I THINK
THERE ARE MORE.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THIS THERE
ARE MULTIPLE THINGS GOING ON
HERE.
THERE WILL BE TRADE OFFS THAT
WE NEED TO BE DOCUMENTING DO A
BETTER JOB OF THAT.
I THINK THERE ARE SITUATIONS
WHERE PEOPLE DON'T REALIZE THAT
THERE ARE PROTECTIONS IN PLACE
THAT AREN'T CHANGING.
SO IT'S WORTH POINTING THAT
THERE'S NOTHING IN THIS PLAN
THAT'S GOING TO EVISCERATE THE
CURRENT PROTECTIONS THAT ARE IN
PLACE FOR TREES.
EXACTLY.
AND THERE ARE ALSO PLACES WHERE
THERE AREN'T CURRENT PROTECTION
FOR THINGS THAT YOU MAYBE THINK
THERE ARE IN FACT A DEVELOPER
RIGHT NOW COULD COME IN AND DO
AN SO THERE'S A LOT
OF CONFUSION THAT WAY.
SO I'M I'M GOING TO MY WIFE IS
GOING TO REALLY REGRET THIS BUT
I CAN TAKE A SHOT.
I'VE BEEN TAKING NOTES OF WHERE
I THINK SOME OF THESE TENSIONS
ARE AND WHERE SOME OF THE
CONFUSION IS AND I'M HAPPY TO
TAKE A SHOT AND MAYBE WE CAN
CRAFT MAYBE WITH HELP OF SOME
OTHER COMMISSIONERS WE CAN
CRAFT A CALLOUT BOX THAT KIND
OF JUST TALKS ABOUT THOSE
THINGS.
>> WOULD THAT BE HELPFUL?
I'M HAPPY TO BE YOUR EDITOR
BECAUSE I AGREE.
>> I MEAN WE SHOULD JUST BE
UPFRONT AND PUT IT ON THE TABLE
AND SAY LOOK, WE'RE TRYING TO
BALANCE HERE.
>> I THINK THERE WOULD PROBABLY
BE SEVERAL OF THEM LIKE YEAH,
MAYBE FOUR KEY ONES MAYBE AND I
WOULD SAY A SEPARATE CALLOUT
BOX FOR EACH WORD.
THE SOLARRESERVE ONE THIS ISSUE
OF TRUTH IS NO, WE CAN THINK
ABOUT IT AND IF IT IS HELPFUL
TO HAVE COMMISSIONERS DRAFT
TEXT THERE ARE A LOT OF REALLY
SMART PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM SIX
PERCENT OF US TOOK FOUR PERCENT
OFF CHAPTER FOUR WE'RE GETTING
A OK SO PAGE FIFTY TWO THIS IS
WHEN WE GET INTO CHAPTER FOUR
IS WHERE WE HAVE OUR KEY
CONSIDERATION.
>> WHAT WE'VE HEARD AND OUR
GOALS.
SO THE COMMENT HERE IS
REFERRING TO MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL UM IF THIS
CURRENTLY IF THIS OCCURRED AND
ALL OF THE CURRENT DEVELOPABLE
LANDS, HOW CLOSE WOULD THAT GET
TOWARD MEETING THE PROJECTED
DEMAND FOR ADDITIONAL HOUSING?
>> AND I THINK THIS STEMS FROM
I BELIEVE IT WOULD BE LIKE A
FOCUS ON CORRIDOR'S IN DOWNTOWN
FIRST IF WE COULD SEE IF I
COULD MEET ALL OF OUR HOUSING
DEMAND BY STARTING THEIR FIRST
BEFORE ENTERING INTO THE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I HAVEN'T BEEN IS IT I THINK I
UNDERSTAND THE NATURE OF THIS
COMMENT.
I THINK THAT THE I THE THE
BIGGER IDEA OF THE PLAN AS I
UNDERSTAND IT IS AN IS AN
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT THIS
WOULDN'T HAPPEN.
SO LIKE IN OTHER WORDS WE DON'T
GET TO CHERRY PICK WHERE AND
HOW QUICKLY AND WHAT KIND
OF DEVELOPMENT HAPPENS.
SO WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS A
KIND OF LIKE MULTIPOINT
INCLUSIVE OF APPROACH THAT WILL
ENCOURAGE OVER TIME.
WE KNOW IT'LL TAKE A LOT
OF TIME DIFFERENT KINDS
OF DEVELOPMENT IN DIFFERENT
PARTS OF THE CITY.
SO IN SOME WAYS I FEEL I WORRY
THAT PROVIDING THIS KIND
OF NUMBER WILL BE
MISINTERPRETED OR MIS HANDLED.
SO I WILL I WILL TELL YOU THIS
I RAISED THIS QUESTION.
>> IT'S PRETTY CLEAR TO ME THAT
THE THING THAT IS REALLY
CAUSING CONTROVERSY IN THIS
CITY IS BECAUSE I MEAN THERE
ARE A LOT OF CONCERNS PEOPLE
ARE RAISING BUT IT'S THE
PROPERTY OWNERS IN THEIR SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS WHO ARE
JUST CONVINCED THAT WHAT WE'RE
DOING WILL DESTROY THE SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS FOR NO
GOOD REASON THAT IT WON'T
GENERATE THE KIND OF HOUSING
THAT WE NEED.
WE WON'T MEET THOSE DEMANDS AND
WE NEVER REALLY SPEAK TO THAT.
AND THE ONLY CLEAR STATEMENT I
FIND IN THE PLAN IS WE'RE DOING
THIS BECAUSE CITY COUNCIL
INSTRUCTED US TO DO IT WHICH IS
NOT A GOOD REASON BY ITSELF.
UM, YEAH, IT'S CLOSER TO SAY
WE'RE GOING TO SPREAD THE
BURDEN OUT AND EVERYBODY HAS TO
CONTRIBUTE.
UM, I HONESTLY THINK IT'S
ENTIRELY POSSIBLE FOR US WITH
GOOD DESIGN STANDARDS THERE ARE
LOTS OF PLACES LIKE WE HEARD
THIS OVER AND OVER AGAIN
TONIGHT.
THERE ARE LOTS OF NEIGHBORHOODS
IN THIS CITY THAT HAVE
MULTIFAMILY STRUCTURES MIXED IN
WITH SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND
IT'S PERFECTLY FINE AND IT
MAKES FOR FINE NEIGHBORHOODS.
I DON'T THINK I ACCEPT THE IDEA
THAT SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE SACROSANCT
AND THAT THEY CAN'T BE
DESIRABLE PLACES TO LIVE IF
THOSE ARE QUADRIPLEGICS.
BUT WE'RE STILL NOT REALLY
RESPONDING TO THE CONCERN THAT
I'M HEARING THAT YOU HAVEN'T
EXPLAINED TO ME A LOT OF THE
FOLKS WHO ARE UNHAPPY WHY MY
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS TO BE
SACRIFICED FOR THE LARGER CITY
.
GOOD.
I'M NOT FRAMING IT THAT WAY.
I'M TO THAT'S WHAT I'M HEARING
FOLKS SAY AND I'M TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT'S THE CREDIBLE
RESPONSE TO THAT.
THE AND I KNOW WE'RE NOT GOING
TO SATISFY EVERYBODY BUT THERE
ARE A LOT OF FOLKS WHO ARE
TROUBLED BY WHAT'S GOING ON AND
THEY DON'T THINK WE'VE SORTED
THROUGH THE AND I DON'T THINK I
UNDERSTAND THAT.
I DON'T I DON'T THINK PROVIDING
THE DATA ABOUT IF EVERY SINGLE
CAR CURRENTLY AVAILABLE A LOT
WAS DEVELOPED WITH MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ALL THAT WOULD BE
ALLOWED WHAT HOW MANY UNITS
THAT WOULD PRODUCE IS GOING TO
ADDRESS THAT CONCERN.
>> SO THAT'S THAT'S LET'S HEAR
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
MAYBE I DIDN'T STATE THAT WELL
ENOUGH.
I MEAN I'M JUST TRYING TO GET
AT HOW CAN WE DO SOME ANALYSIS
TO CREDIBLY ANSWER THAT?
>> WELL ALSO THAT'S THE
ASSUMPTION THAT PEOPLE WHO LIVE
IN THOSE AREAS DON'T LIVE IN
NEIGHBORHOODS WHICH I REJECT
BECAUSE THOSE ARE ALSO
NEIGHBORHOODS I LIVE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS ONE
OF THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE MR.
VINCENZO WAS SAYING, YOU KNOW,
IT PUTS MORE PRESSURE ON WHICH
I DON'T I MEAN I THINK IT'S
FINE LIKE I DON'T MIND LIVING
NEXT TO A TALL BUILDING SO IT'S
NOT A BIG ISSUE FOR ME.
BUT I THINK WHEN YOU SAY OH,
WE'RE GOING TO PUT IT HERE AND
NOT IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS, THOSE
ARE NEIGHBORHOODS, SINGLE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND YOU KNOW BUT
I ALSO AS A IN MY POSITION ON
THE ZEBA I MEAN ONE OF THE
THINGS WE HAD IS EVERYBODY
TALKS ABOUT THE COMMUNITY LAND
TRUST.
WELL, THE COMMUNITY LAND TRUST
CAME TO ZEBA THIS WEEK TO SAY
HEY, WE'RE TRYING TO GET THESE
HOUSES BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO
DO A DUPLEX OR WE'RE GOING TO
DO A AIDOO SO THEY'RE GETTING
LAND AND THEN DO IT AIDO SO
THAT MEANS TO LOTS OR TWO
DWELLING UNITS AND IF THEY
COULD HAVE FOUR DWELLING UNITS
ON EACH THEN THE PEOPLE WHO
COME HERE AND SAY THEY REALLY
LIKE THE COMMUNITY LAND TRUST
LIKE WHY WOULDN'T WE SUPPORT
THAT INSTEAD OF HAVING TO GO
THROUGH ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
TO TRY TO GET SOMETHING YOU
KNOW AND THOSE ARE IN SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS AND WE GET
A LOT OF PEOPLE COMING IN AND
SAYING WE REALLY LIKE THE
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST.
WELL, WE ARE MAKING MORE
EXPENSIVE AND MORE DIFFICULT TO
BUILD AND AND WE HAVE A LOT
OF PEOPLE COMING TO SAY THEY
LIKE THAT IDEA OF COMMUNITY
LAND TRUSTS.
SO IF WE'RE SAYING OK, WE CAN
ONLY DO THIS IN CERTAIN AREAS
OF THE CITY, THEN AGAIN WE
REDUCE A LOT OF OUR FLEXIBILITY
IF WE'RE IF WE'RE SAYING NO,
WE'RE ONLY GOING TO DEVELOP IN
CERTAIN AREAS NOW I UNDERSTAND
AND I DO THINK THAT IT IS SOME
OF IT IS PEOPLE ASSUME THAT
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING IS SOME
TYPE OF HOUSING THAT HAS
CERTAIN TYPES OF PEOPLE OR
CERTAIN TYPES OF SOUNDS OR
SMELLS OR CARS OR WHATEVER IT
IS THAT PEOPLE ARE WORRIED
ABOUT.
BUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
THAT WE DON'T KIND OF SAY OH
YES, YOUR YOUR YOUR FEARS ARE
TOTALLY UNFOUNDED BECAUSE I
DON'T PERSONALLY THINK THOSE
FEARS ARE UNFOUNDED AND THAT
IT'S MORE OF MAYBE PEOPLE WANT
THIS TYPE OF NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE'RE STILL GOING TO HAVE
DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
HAVE DIFFERENT FIELDS AND
DIFFERENT BUILDING TYPES.
AND SO I DON'T I DON'T KNOW I
JUST I REALLY I HAVE A HARD
TIME WITH LIKE OH, WE'RE JUST
GOING TO PAY ATTENTION TO THE
NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE I THINK
EVERY BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M
SAYING.
YOU KNOW I KNOW YOU'RE NOT
SAYING IT BUT I THINK PEOPLE
ARE OF LIKE SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE A CERTAIN
THING AND I'M NOT SURE THAT
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS ARE
A CERTAIN THING EVERY
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS A FEEL AND
WHAT'S COMFORTABLE TO THEM AND
A NORM AND I THINK SPLITTING
OUT CERTAIN SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS AS AS NOT AS
IMPORTANT TO BUILD IT JUST
BETTER MAYBE I EXPRESSING
MYSELF WELL IT JUST FEELS VERY
LIKE CONTINUING THE PATTERN
THAT WE'VE HAD OVER THE LAST 60
70 YEARS.
LET ME SEE IF I CAN ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION VERY SPECIFICALLY
BECAUSE I THINK WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING IS THE 13 PERCENT
OF LAND THAT IS NOT, YOU KNOW,
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY HISTORIC OR
ONE OR TWO THERE'S THIRTEEN
PERCENT THAT'S TWENTY FOUR
HUNDRED ACRES.
WHAT I THINK WHAT YOUR QUESTION
IS TRYING TO GET AT IS IF ALL
OF THAT WAS MAXIMALLY DEVELOPED
WOULD THAT SOLVE CREDIBLY
DEVELOPED?
WOULD THAT GET US ANYWHERE
CLOSE TO WHAT WE THINK OUR
HOUSING NEEDS ARE FOR THE NEXT
I DON'T THINK IS AN ARGUMENT.
I DON'T THINK IT MEANS OUR
GOALS BECAUSE PART OF OUR GOAL
IS TO PROVIDE A LOT
OF DIFFERENT HOUSING TYPOLOGY
AND TO MAXIMUM EVEN EVEN IF
WHAT REGARDLESS OF WHAT THAT
NUMBERS ARE.
I THINK PART OF THE PART OF THE
APPROACH OF THIS PLAN IS WE'VE
ONLY BUILT TWO KINDS OF HOUSING
FOR A LONG TIME SINGLE FAMILY
DETACHED AND APARTMENTS AND I
THINK A BIG PART OF THIS IS WE
WANT TO BROADEN THAT PORTFOLIO
OF HOUSING THAT'S AVAILABLE AND
TO SAY THAT REGARDLESS OF WHAT
QUANTITIES MAY OR MAY NOT COME
OUT OF JUST THE TRANSITION OR
HUB ZONES THAT IS REALLY
LIMITING.
>> THAT'S REALLY LIMITING THAT
IT'S LIMITING OUR ABILITY TO
WIDEN OUR PORTFOLIO HOUSING
TECHNOLOGY.
BUT I WE DON'T HAVE 100 PER
CENT AGREE BECAUSE THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS THAT'S A
BIG QUESTION.
HOW MANY UNITS ARE GOING TO BE
PUT IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD AND I
DON'T HAVE AN ANSWER AND I TRY
TO BE SOME PEOPLE SAY I DON'T
KNOW BUT PART OF THIS IS TRYING
TO BUILD THE FLEXIBILITY SO
THAT THERE ARE PLACES THAT
PROPERTY OWNERS, BUILDERS CAN
MAKE PARTS OF .
>> OH, I'M SORRY.
I ALSO THINK IT'S CHOICES THAT
POTENTIAL RESIDENTS CAN MAKE TO
RIGHT.
>> LIKE THERE'S THIS ARGUMENT
THAT LIKE DON'T RUIN OUR SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE
OF THE PLACES WITH BACKYARDS
AND THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE WANT TO
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR AND I FEEL
LIKE IT'S VERY EXCLUSIONARY TO
SAY ONLY PEOPLE THEY CAN AFFORD
THIS.
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE SHOULD LIVE ON
THAT.
AS I SAID IN MY SPEECH EARLIER
,PEOPLE SHOULD JUST LIVE ON
THE CORRIDORS THEN LIKE PEOPLE
PEOPLE MIGHT WANT TO LIVE IN A
DUPLEX AND STILL HAVE ACCESS TO
THAT YARD.
AND I THINK THAT YES, THAT'S
THE IMPORTANT PART OF WHY WE'RE
TRYING TO BUILD UP EVERYWHERE
AND ALSO TO THAT I MEAN MY
FRIENDS SOMETIMES WHO WHOSE
PROPERTY RIGHTS ARE WE GOING TO
FAVOR MY PROPERTY RIGHTS OR MY
NEIGHBORS PROPERTY RIGHTS
BECAUSE SOMEONE LIVING IN A
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOOD
SAYING WE'RE NOT GONNA LET THIS
CHANGE IS BASICALLY SAYING I'M
NOT GOING TO LET YOU DO
SOMETHING DIFFERENT WITH YOUR
PROPERTY BECAUSE I LIKE IT.
YOU'RE KEEPING IT THAT WAY.
SO EVEN IT'S A COMPLICATED
DIALOG AND THERE ARE DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVES TO TAKE I GUESS
THE POINT I'M TRYING TO MAKE IS
ALL OF THE ARGUMENTS THAT
YOU'RE LAYING OUT HERE I THINK
ARE GOOD RESPONSES BUT I
HAVEN'T SEEN THAT IN THE PLAN
CLEARLY ARTICULATED WHY IT'S
IMPORTANT ADD MORE HOUSING
TYPES TO THE SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY'RE THE ONES SHOWING UP
COMPLAINING WHY ARE YOU DOING
THIS TO ME?
AND THERE'S NOT A GOOD RESPONSE
TO FOR THEM AND THE PLAN AND
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE WITH THAT
GOOD RESPONSES AND WHAT I WAS
TRYING TO DO HERE WAS GET TO
ONE WAY TO ANSWER IT.
>> SO YEAH, I THINK THE TOTALLY
GOOD RESPONSE IS WHAT I JUST
SAID OR JUST BUT GET IT IN THE
PLAN IN A MORE LIKE LIKE YOU
SAID POUCHY YOU CAN'T POINT TO
IT IN THERE HUNCHY WAY.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
I THINK HOUSING DIVERSITY IS IN
THE PLAN BUT IT'S PRETTY WELL
HIDDEN AND IT'S NO NO NO I
AGREE I THINK IT JUST NEEDS TO
BE SURE AND I THINK WE COULD
BRING IT FORWARD ON FIFTY TWO
WITHOUT HAVING TO ACCEPT THE
PREMISE THAT EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING IS BEING SACRIFICED.
THAT'S THE THING THAT I HAVE A
STRONG OBJECTION TO IS THE IDEA
THAT WE ACCEPT THE PREMISE THAT
IT'S BEING SACRIFICED TO SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS ARE BEING
SACRIFICED FOR.
>> I'M GOING TO SAY THAT IT'S
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING AS OPPOSED
TO SINGLE DETACHED UNIT
HOUSING.
I THINK WE CAN SAY THAT OUR
GOAL IN OUR CITY IS TO CREATE
MORE DIVERSE HOUSING TYPES FOR
MORE PEOPLE CITYWIDE THROUGHOUT
THE CITY BECAUSE I WANT THE
FOLKS WHO HAVE TO DRIVE IN TO
MY NEIGHBORHOOD TO GO TO OUR
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TO BE ABLE TO
LIVE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
BECAUSE I WANT THE KIDS THAT MY
DAUGHTER GOES TO SCHOOL WITH TO
BE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD SO SHE
CAN GO BIKING WITH THEM AND
THAT CAN'T HAPPEN EVEN IF WE
TOOK THE 13 PERCENT
OF DEVELOPMENT LAND AND PUT ALL
THE UNITS ON IT.
IT'S STILL DENIES THAT FIFTH
GRADER THE OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE
ALL OF THE AMENITIES THAT WE
BENEFIT FROM BECAUSE WE WERE
LUCKY.
WE IT REALLY IS LUCK.
WE WE GOT HERE TWO THOUSAND SIX
AND BOUGHT THE HOUSE AND IT WAS
AFFORDABLE AT THAT TIME AND IN
MY NEIGHBORHOOD THE FOR SALE
HOUSES HAVE NOW JUST CROSSED
EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
AND THAT'S THE FIRST TIME THAT
THEY HAVE REACHED THAT NUMBER
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD AND THOSE
HOUSES WHEN THEY WERE BUILT IN
NINETEEN SIXTY SEVEN WERE SOLD
FOR TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
SO I WENT TO THE ROOF OFF
OF THAT.
I MEAN I'M TOTALLY WITH YOU.
I THINK TOO THAT WE CAN MAKE A
GOOD FAITH ARGUMENT THAT WE CAN
FIGURE OUT HOW TO DO THIS IN A
WAY THAT WON'T DESTROY THE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I MEAN WITH GOOD DESIGN AND
SOME THOUGHTFULNESS WE CAN
INCREASE THE DIVERSITY
OF HOUSING TYPES IN ALL OF THE
NEIGHBORHOODS SO THEY'RE MORE
INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE.
BUT WE NEED TO MAKE SURE WE DO
THAT IN A WAY THAT'S AND THAT'S
NOT OVERLY DISRUPTIVE AND WE'RE
ALREADY TALKING ABOUT THAT BY
DOING THE THE SETBACKS AND AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
AND I KNOW WE'RE ANTICIPATING
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO HEAR FOLKS
ARE GOING TO SAY BUT I WANT IT
ALL DETAILED IN GREAT DETAIL IN
THE PLAN.
TALK ABOUT IT NOW PAST THE PLAN
AND MY RESPONSE TO THAT I THINK
IS YOU KNOW, THAT'S ACTUALLY
SOMETHING THAT'S BETTER DONE
THROUGH THE UDC REVISIONS WHERE
THE SPECIFICITY IS IS MORE
APPROPRIATE TO THINK ABOUT.
BUT THAT MEANS WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO COMMIT I'M COMMITTING
THE CITY TO TO TAKING THE TIME
AND EFFORT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WHEN YOU GET TO THAT STAGE WE
REALLY ARE THOUGHTFULLY
THINKING THROUGH HOW ARE WE
GOING TO TAKE THIS POLICY GOAL
ARTICULATED IN THE PLAN AND
MAKE IT WORKABLE THROUGH THE
ZONING ORDINANCE.
SO CAN WE LET'S JUST SO WE'RE
WE I THINK WE ARE THERE'S A
CONSENSUS EMERGING THAT THIS
REQUEST YOUR REQUEST GOES OUT
BUT THERE IS A DESIRE FOR A
FORCEFUL STATEMENT OF WHY WE'RE
DOING A CITYWIDE AND THERE IS A
NICE SUPPORTING GRAPH.
I THINK BRIAN CHAMBERS POINTED
THIS OUT TO US IN THE APPENDIX
THAT YOU MADE, WHICH IS THE
KIND OF THINGS THAT AREN'T
GETTING BUILT ANYMORE AND IT'S
TWO TO FOUR UNIT THINGS AND
THAT'S A GREAT ILLUSTRATION
OF A LOSS OF HOUSING DIVERSITY
AND IT'S A GOOD ILLUSTRATION
THAT CREATES AN AFFORDABILITY
OF A LOSS OF HOUSING DIVERSITY
ISSUE.
THAT CREATES AN AFFORDABILITY
SO I THOUGHT THAT COULD BE
ISSUE.
PULLED INTO THE TEXT AT SOME
SO I THOUGHT THAT COULD BE
POINT THE BODY OF THE PLAN TO
PULLED INTO THE TEXT AT SOME
MAKE THIS ARGUMENT THAT WE WANT
POINT THE BODY OF THE PLAN TO
TO MAKE DIRECTLY AND FORCEFULLY
MAKE THIS ARGUMENT THAT WE WANT
THAT WE WANT DIVERSE HOUSING
TO MAKE DIRECTLY AND FORCEFULLY
AND THAT IS A FACTOR IN
THAT WE WANT DIVERSE HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY AND ACCESSIBILITY
AND THAT IS A FACTOR IN
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT THE SAME
AFFORDABILITY AND ACCESSIBILITY
THING.
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT THE SAME
BUT YEAH, OK, THAT'S HOW I WAS
THING.
INTERPRETING IT.
BUT YEAH, OK, THAT'S HOW I WAS
>> SO IT'S WE'RE NOT GOING TO
INTERPRETING IT.
DO ANY SORT OF REJECTION OF THE
>> SO IT'S WE'RE NOT GOING TO
BILL JUST OF THE 13 PERCENT BUT
DO ANY SORT OF REJECTION OF THE
A MORE CONCISE VERSION OF THE
BILL JUST OF THE 13 PERCENT BUT
CONVERSATION WE JUST HAD WHY
A MORE CONCISE VERSION OF THE
IT'S IMPORTANT TO INCREASE
CONVERSATION WE JUST HAD WHY
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES BROADLY
IT'S IMPORTANT TO INCREASE
ACROSS THE CITY FOR A VARIETY
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES BROADLY
VARIETY OF EXPERIENCES, DESIRES
ACROSS THE CITY FOR A VARIETY
AND ULTIMATELY CHOICES BY
VARIETY OF EXPERIENCES, DESIRES
PEOPLE.
AND ULTIMATELY CHOICES BY
YEAH, AND I THINK IF FOR ME
PEOPLE.
IT'S VITALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE
YEAH, AND I THINK IF FOR ME
DO NOT ACCEPT CERTAIN PREMISES,
IT'S VITALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE
I THINK WE HAVE TO TALK ABOUT
DO NOT ACCEPT CERTAIN PREMISES,
THIS POSITIVELY AND NOT WITH A
I THINK WE HAVE TO TALK ABOUT
NEGATIVE FRAME AND ACCEPTING
THIS POSITIVELY AND NOT WITH A
NEGATIVE FRAME BECAUSE WE
NEGATIVE FRAME AND ACCEPTING
CANNOT PROPERLY DEFEND OUR
NEGATIVE FRAME BECAUSE WE
ACTION AGAINST SOMEONE READING
CANNOT PROPERLY DEFEND OUR
WHAT WE'RE DOING AS NEGATIVE.
ACTION AGAINST SOMEONE READING
SO WE ARE MAKING A DIFFERENT
WHAT WE'RE DOING AS NEGATIVE.
DECISION.
SO WE ARE MAKING A DIFFERENT
WE'RE SAYING WE WANT TO OPEN
DECISION.
THE NEIGHBORHOODS TO MORE
WE'RE SAYING WE WANT TO OPEN
PEOPLE.
THE NEIGHBORHOODS TO MORE
WE WANT THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN
PEOPLE.
HISTORICALLY EXCLUDED TO HAVE
WE WANT THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN
AN OPPORTUNITY WE CAN'T CONTROL
HISTORICALLY EXCLUDED TO HAVE
THAT BECAUSE THE CITY DOESN'T
AN OPPORTUNITY WE CAN'T CONTROL
BUILD ENOUGH CITY BUILT HOUSING
THAT BECAUSE THE CITY DOESN'T
TO INSURE IT.
BUILD ENOUGH CITY BUILT HOUSING
BUT WE CAN ENABLE THE
TO INSURE IT.
POSSIBILITY FOR IT TO EXIST AND
BUT WE CAN ENABLE THE
WE DO NOT ACCEPT THE PREMISE
POSSIBILITY FOR IT TO EXIST AND
THAT WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
WE DO NOT ACCEPT THE PREMISE
DESTROYING SOMETHING.
THAT WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
SO FOR ME I THINK IT'S ABOUT
DESTROYING SOMETHING.
HOW WE ARTICULATE IT.
SO FOR ME I THINK IT'S ABOUT
IT'S ABOUT MORE NEIGHBORS
HOW WE ARTICULATE IT.
SHARING ACCESS TO WHAT WE ALL
IT'S ABOUT MORE NEIGHBORS
BENEFIT FROM.
SHARING ACCESS TO WHAT WE ALL
THAT'S IT.
BENEFIT FROM.
LIKE WE TALK ABOUT THAT AND I
THAT'S IT.
WORK IN SO MY CHURCH IS IN WARD
LIKE WE TALK ABOUT THAT AND I
THREE.
WORK IN SO MY CHURCH IS IN WARD
I LIVE IN WARD FOUR.
THREE.
WE ARE ZONED OFFICE NEXT TO M
I LIVE IN WARD FOUR.
ONE BUT ACROSS THE STREET IS A
WE ARE ZONED OFFICE NEXT TO M
PAD WITH SEVERAL UNITS
ONE BUT ACROSS THE STREET IS A
OF HOUSING AND THAT ABOUT FIFTY
PAD WITH SEVERAL UNITS
IN AVALON.
OF HOUSING AND THAT ABOUT FIFTY
HOW MANY IN YOURS?
IN AVALON.
ONE TWENTY DID I SAY SEVERAL.
HOW MANY IN YOURS?
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVEN.
ONE TWENTY DID I SAY SEVERAL.
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY UNITS
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVEN.
OF HOUSING.
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY UNITS
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
OF HOUSING.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
AND THAT'S GOING TO BE A
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SO THE IDEA
AND THAT'S GOING TO BE A
LIKE THE I MET WITH THOSE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SO THE IDEA
NEIGHBORS WHEN I ADVOCATED FOR
THOSE THIRTEEN ACRES TO BE SOLD
TO IN WHEN THE COUNTY WAS
CONDUCTING THAT PROCESS AND THE
NEIGHBORS SHOUT AT ME DOWN THEY
CALLED ME NAMES THEY SAID
YOU'RE RUINING OUR COMMUNITY.
THEY WANTED TO TAX THEMSELVES
TO BUY THE LAND SO THAT IT
WOULD STAY ON DEVELOPED AND NOW
THEY'RE ALL GOING TO BENEFIT
FROM HAVING THOSE PROPERTIES
THERE FROM HAVING THOSE
NEIGHBORS THERE.
I DO NOT ACCEPT THE PREMISE
THAT WHAT WE ARE DOING IS
DESTROYING OUR NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE ARE MAKING OUR CITY BETTER
FOR EVERYBODY.
>> OK, I THINK OUR DIRECTIONS
CLEAR.
OK, SO THE NEXT ONE IS PAGE
SIXTY WHICH I THINK IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHT FORWARD EDIT HERE
WOULD BE CHANGING BUILDING FORM
CONTROLS IS THAT'S NOT A
INDUSTRY STANDARD TERM THAT'S
EASY ENOUGH.
THERE WAS A SUGGESTION WE
SHOULD EITHER SAY FORM BASE
CODE AND INCLUDE IT IN THE
GLOSSARY WHICH WE CAN DO.
I THINK WE JUST BROUGHT THIS UP
TO TOUCH ON FORM BASE CODE AND
MAKE SURE AS A CONCEPT THAT
WE'RE ALL ON THE SAME PAGE
ABOUT WHAT THAT MEANS AND THAT
YOU HAVE SEEN WHAT WAS ADDED
INTO THE PLAN.
I THINK WE HAD ASKED THEM TO
INCLUDE EXAMPLES OF WHAT THAT
MEANS.
>> I THINK THIS IS JUST A CHECK
IN HERE ABOUT THIS LARGER
CONCEPT ONLY BECAUSE AGAIN THIS
IS ANOTHER THING THAT WE HEAR A
LOT FROM THE PUBLIC.
I THINK THERE'S CONFUSION ABOUT
WHAT FORM BASED CODE MEANS SO
SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THE
GLOSSARY.
>> THAT'S THAT'S AN EASY
CHANGE.
BUT ARE WE ALL COMFORTABLE WITH
HOW WE'VE DEFINED IT, WHERE IS
THE DEFINITION OF IT?
SO THERE'S NO DEFINITION IN THE
GLOSSARY BUT THERE'S BULLET
POINTS OF WHAT IT LIKE WHAT
EXAMPLES INCLUDE OH IS THAT IN
THE SORRY THAT'S NOT ON PAGE
SIXTY.
I'M NOT BEING VERY CLEAR ON
PAGE SIXTY THE SUGGESTION IS TO
CHANGE YELDON FORM CENTRALS.
>> YEAH I THINK THAT'S AN EASY
ONE.
UM JUST BROUGHT UP ONE BASE
CODE HERE TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE OK WITH THAT AND I WILL
HAVE TO FIND WHAT PAGE THAT'S
ON ITS PROBLEM.
SO WHILE YOU'RE FINDING THAT
YEAH I SUBMITTED SOME
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS LIKE A FEW
DAYS AFTER MY FIRST COMMENT AND
SO ONE OF THE ADDITIONAL
COMMENTS THAT I SUBMITTED WAS
TO REVISE THE DEFINITION
OF FORM BASE CODE .
SO YES, DISCUSS THAT NOW
BECAUSE I THINK RIGHT NOW IT
USES THE TERM NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER AND CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH I WOULD LIKE
TO SCRUB.
>> I BELIEVE THAT WE THAT'S IN
THE STEP THAT IT'S THAT WE WILL
MAKE THAT WE WILL DO THAT.
YEAH, OK.
THAT MIGHT AGREE TOGETHER IT'S
THE WORD IF THAT PHRASE IS
GOING TO BE USED HERE THERE
SHOULD JUST JUST YOU KNOW DASH
DASH SUCH AS THE THAT DASH DASH
EVEN IF WE'VE DEFINED IT
SOMEWHERE ELSE IF IT'S COMING
BACK IN HERE WE DON'T WANT
PEOPLE TO HAVE TO CROSS
REFERENCE.
WE WANT TO REMIND THEM THAT
MEANS THIS KIND OF THING FOR
FORM BASE CODE WOULD MEAN THE
YOU KNOW IF THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
SAYING HERE.
SO THAT'S ON PAGE 118 NOW IN
THE SECOND COMMON SENSE FORM IN
SIGHT CONSIDERATIONS AND THEN
THE SECOND BULLET POINT IS FORM
BASED REGULATIONS TO CONSIDER
THIS IS SOMETHING WE HAD ASKED
TO BE INCLUDED.
>> WE SHOULD MOVE IT.
I THINK IF WE WANT TO SATISFY
COMMISSIONER DIFFERENT THING I
THINK IN THE BODY OF THE TEXT
ON PAGE SIXTY WHERE IT NOW SAYS
BUILDING FORM CONTROLS WE COULD
SAY FORM BASE CODE PARENTHESES
REGULATIONS THAT LIMIT OR
CONTROL THE FORM OF THE
BUILDING OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
JUST LIKE THAT OR THE KIND
OF REGULAR DESCRIPTIVE
REGULATIONS THAT LIMIT OR
CONTROL A FORM OF A BUILDING'S
OJAI'S YOU TELL ME WHAT WE CAN
FIGURE IT OUT.
>> YOU'RE THE ARCHITECT AND
WELL WOULD BE LIKE STEP BACK OR
IF YOU REALLY ARE HAS TO BE
TRANSLATED FOR THEM TO YEAH
YEAH WE CAN BEGIN YOU SHOULD DO
IT VERY EASY TO DO THERE.
YEAH.
SO WHAT WOULD YOUR DEFINITION
OF FORM IS.
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE I DON'T
THINK DO WE.
I THINK WE JUST IN THE INTEREST
OF TIME YOU WROTE IT RIGHT I
WROTE IT IT'S IN THE SECOND
TABLE UNDERSTAFF AND IT'S I
BELIEVE I WOULD HAVE JUST
COPIED OVER WHAT YOU SUGGESTED
.
THANK YOU.
ON THE SAME PAGE PAGE SIXTY THE
SUGGESTION WAS UM THE CITY WILL
NEED TO REVIEW AND REWRITE THE
ZONING CODE AND ALSO STREAMLINE
THE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
TO SUPPORT AFFORDABILITY GOALS
AND MORE EASILY DEVELOPED TO
UNIT TO FOR UNIT MISSING MIDDLE
HOUSING WHOSE PRODUCTION HAS
DECLINED OVER THE PAST DECADE
PROVIDE EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE.
SO IS THIS I DON'T KNOW UM
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH I DON'T
WANT TO CALL YOU UP BUT THIS IS
SIMILAR TO WHAT YOU JUST SAID
ABOUT THE TABLE.
>> THE GRAPH THAT I HAD MADE A
HUNDRED REMEMBER WHO SUBMITTED
THIS.
BUT IF THIS IS JUST A REFERENCE
TO INCLUDING THAT IT'S NOT JUST
THAT IT'S ALSO ADDING THIS
SENTENCE JUST BECAUSE UM AND
I'M NOT AS I LOOK AT IT I'M NOT
SURE IF THIS IS THE PLACE FOR
IT BUT ZONING ALONE JUST
CHANGING ZONING ISN'T ISN'T
GOING TO BE ENOUGH RIGHT TO GET
MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING THERE.
WE ALSO NEED TO REVIEW AND
REWRITE THE ZONING CODE AND
ALSO STREAMLINE THE DEVELOPMENT
REVIEW PROCESS.
>> WELL, THAT IS A PART OF THE
ZONING THAT IS ISN'T YEAH.
SO MAYBE WHATEVER BUT JUST THAT
WE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE ARE
OTHER THINGS THAT ADD COST
OTHER THAN ZONING.
THERE'S THAT AND OBVIOUSLY
THERE'S MARKET AND THERE'S
COSTS OF FINANCE.
WE CAN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT
THAT.
THAT'S OUT OF OUR HANDS.
>> BUT THERE ARE OTHER THINGS
IN THE IN THE CITY PROCESS THAT
ADD COSTS AND THAT'S THE REVIEW
PROCESS.
>> IT WAS SOMETHING THAT CAME
UP IN THE LITERATURE A LOT.
SO ACKNOWLEDGING THAT WE KNOW
THAT AND THAT WE KNOW WE HAVE
TO DO THAT AND WE ARE DOING SO.
>> DOES THIS SENTENCE YOUR
ASKING US TO ADD TO THIS
SENTENCE?
I THINK I AM YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW HOW I THINK I
STOPPED BEING CLEAR AT SOME
TIME WHEN I WAS WRITING ALL MY
EDITS.
>> THAT'S OK.
SO OK SO YEAH IT'S EVERYBODY
YEAH WE'RE DISCUSSING THIS I'M
STILL TRYING TO CATCH UP ON
STAGE SIXTEEN I THINK THE
FACTUAL EDITS THE SECOND
GLOSSARY TERM OH ARE YOU
TALKING ABOUT THE FORM BASE
CODE THAT WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING
FOR COMMISSIONER.
>> NO NO OK YOU'RE BACK NOW TO
PAGE SIXTY.
I MAY COME BACK AND BE OK SO
THE REQUEST IS JUST FOR US TO
ADD THIS SENTENCE HERE THAT IS
ABOUT STREAMLINING THE
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS TO
SUPPORT AFFORDABILITY OF TWO TO
FOUR UNIT HOUSING.
>> YES.
SO I'M AWARE WITH THAT GET AND
I'M SURE THAT SIXTY'S RIGHT
PAGE SO IT'S CONFUSING TO ME
THAT THAT'S WHERE I THOUGHT I
SHOULD IT SHOULD BE PUT BUT I'M
SURE THAT THERE'S A PLACE YOU
CAN FIND FOR IT.
>> IT'S JUST ACKNOWLEDGING
SOMETHING THAT WE KNOW TO BE
TRUE.
IT'S I CAN FIND IT I'LL FIND IT
BETTER STREAMLINING THE
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS IS
LIKE A BIG THAT'S A BIG THING
THAT'S A LOTS OF SCALE THE
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT THAT
APPLIES KIND OF BROADLY THEN
THEN IT FEELS WEIRD TO COMBINE
THAT WITH SOMETHING THAT'S
SPECIFICALLY JUST ABOUT TO
DENHA FOR YOU TO DECIDE ON KNOW
WELL ACTUALLY WE'RE HEARING A
LITTLE BIT IN THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT FOLKS THAT
ARE TRYING TO DO THAT SIZE
OF HOUSING SAY THAT THEY SUFFER
THE MOST FROM OUR REALLY CLUNKY
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW LIKE IF YOU
HAVE DEEP POCKETS AND YOU'RE
BUILDING YOU KNOW, AN EIGHTEEN
STOREY BUILDING, IT DOESN'T YOU
KNOW, YOU CAN DENHA WITH A SIX
MONTH DELAY OR A YEAR DELAY.
BUT IF YOU'RE YOU IF YOU'RE A
LOWER SCALE DEVELOPER THIS
KNOCKS YOU OUT OF ANN ARBOR.
YOU'RE NOT BUILT HERE ANYMORE.
WE HEARD THAT WHAT ABOUT PAGE
SIXTY TWO WHERE WE TALK ABOUT
MISSING OR HOUSING SPECIFIC?
I'M SURE THAT THAT IS WHAT I
RECOMMEND IT TO GO OK.
YEAH THAT THAT MAKES TOTAL
THAT'S ALL RIGHT I'LL CHANGE
THAT.
>> YEAH I'M BASICALLY IN THIS
SECTION TO HAVE LIKE
PRE-APPROVED PLANS TO ADDRESS
THAT SO THAT'S DEFINITELY IN
THE IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX.
BUT UM BUT I WOULD HAVE TO
DOUBLE CHECK WHERE I UNDER WHAT
STRATEGY I THINK THAT CAN HELP
IN THIS AREA BECAUSE IF THERE
WERE ALREADY FORM BASE
STRUCTURES THAT SOMEONE COULD
PICK UP GO INTO A SPECIFIC AREA
AND THEY KNOW THAT THIS IS
GOING TO GET APPROVED, IT MAKES
IT EASIER BECAUSE AS I ECHO
COMMISSIONER DISHES COMMENT
AROUND THE DELAYS.
SO ONCE SOMETHING GOES INTO
STREAM THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO GET
WHAT STAFF RESPONSE WITHIN TWO
WEEKS AND I I THINK SOMETHING
FOR US TO TRACK IS HOW
CONSISTENTLY ARE DEVELOPERS
GETTING STAFF RESPONSES WITHIN
TWO WEEKS BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
THAT'S HAPPENING FROM THE
CONSENSUS.
IT'S MORE LIKE IT COULD BE UP
TO THREE MONTHS.
AND SO I THINK THAT ADDRESSES
IN DIRECTLY WHAT WE JUST HEARD
FROM COMMISSIONER DISH.
SO HOW DO WE WE DON'T
NECESSARILY HAVE TO CAPTURE IT
HERE BUT I WOULD LIKE US TO
HIGHLIGHT IT BECAUSE I THINK
THAT'S WHAT IS CREATING SOME
OF THE PROBLEMS WITH US BEING
ABLE TO DEVELOP SOME OF THIS
MISSING HOUSING.
>> SO I'M GOING TO RISK BEING A
STICK IN THE MUD BUT I WANT TO
GO BACK TO THE TENSION WE WERE
JUST TALKING ABOUT NOT LONG AGO
WHICH IS WE'RE TRYING TO
PROMOTE MORE DEVELOPMENT BUT
WE'RE NOT JETTISONING OUR
CONTROLS TO MAKE SURE IT
HAPPENS RIGHT OR WELL OR WELL
CRAFTED OR WELL DESIGNED.
SO I'M TOTALLY MAKES SENSE TO
ME TO BE THINKING ABOUT
STREAMLINING THE PROCESS
.
BUT I DON'T WANT TO SIGNAL THAT
WE'RE GOING TO JUST REMOVE ALL
IF YOU'RE GOING TO BUILD A FOUR
UNIT STRUCTURE YOU CAN DO
WHATEVER YOU WANT AND THERE'S
NO CONTROL.
>> THAT'S NOT WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE CITY
BUREAUCRACY AND THE
INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS THAT ARE
PASSED TO DEVELOPERS.
I MEAN THE TESTIMONY IS ALL
OVER ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND THEN IT'S IN ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT IS REVIEWED
IN THE APPENDIX THIS GUY
INTERVIEWED A BUNCH
OF DEVELOPERS AND THEY SAID YOU
WANT TO KNOW WHAT REALLY COSTS
US MONEY ITS CITIES DON'T
PROCESS.
>> SO I GET THAT TOO.
THIS ISN'T ABOUT YOU RELAXING
REGULATION.
THIS IS ABOUT STREAMLINING
BUREAUCRACY.
>> MAYBE WE SHOULD SAY I DON'T
KNOW BUT SO THE POINT I'M
TRYING TO MAKE IS WE SHOULD
ALSO MAKE CLEAR THIS ISN'T
ABOUT RELAXING REGULATIONS.
WE COULD SAY THOSE WORDS
SPECIFICALLY THAT'S WHAT I'M
TRYING TO GET ACROSS.
>> YOU SAY THAT MR. LEONARD IS
GIVING ME A FUNNY LOOK I WE ARE
YEAH.
I WOULD PUSH BACK A LITTLE BIT
TO STREAMLINE DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK THE GOAL IS TO BE MORE
CLEAR ABOUT OUR WHAT WHAT OUR
EXPECTATIONS ARE COMMUNICATE
THOSE EFFECTIVELY SO THAT
PEOPLE CAN MEET THEM
EFFICIENTLY.
AND I WANT TO BE CLEAR WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT YOU KNOW
YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT A DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD.
IT'S BEEN CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
UPGRADING OUR TRANSPORTATION
REVIEW STANDARDS.
SOMETIMES THAT PROCESS IS
TRYING TO FIND WAYS TO IMPROVE
THE OUTCOME OF A PROJECT AND
PARTICULARLY WHEN YOU START
TALKING ABOUT FORM BASED I
DON'T WANT TO SAY IT'S
IMPOSSIBLE BUT PREAPPROVE PLANS
FOR A FORM BASED STEP BACK
DISTRICT SEEMS REALLY HARD TO
ME.
NOT IMPOSSIBLE BUT WHEN WE
START HAVING A DISTRICT THAT'S
VERY RESPONSIVE TO ITS
SURROUNDINGS WE JUST HAVE TO BE
PRETTY CAREFUL ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING IN THAT REGARD.
AND SO I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR
LIKE I DON'T I DON'T I AGREE
WITH THIS CONVERSATION THAT WE
CAN BE MORE CLEAR BUT THAT
MEANS WE HAVE TO SET VERY
SPECIFIC EXPECTATIONS WHETHER
IT'S TRANSPORTATION REVIEW,
WHETHER IT'S SOLID WASTE
REVIEW, WHETHER IT'S OUR OUR
BUILDING ARCHITECTURE REVIEW.
WE ARE STILL, FOR EXAMPLE,
ADDING AS PART OF OUR RECENT
CHANGES PEOPLE STILL HAVE TO
SUBMIT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
WE'RE STILL GOING TO REVIEW
THEM TO OUR DESIGN GUIDELINES.
THEY'RE STILL NOT BINDING.
SO STREAMLINING THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS WOULD I WOULD SAY TAKE
THAT A STEP FURTHER AND
ELIMINATE THAT REQUIREMENT.
THERE'S COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH
DOING THAT IF THERE IS NO
REQUIREMENT BUT THAT IS GOING
TO BE PERCEIVED BY SOME AS
PERHAPS ERODING THE QUALITY
OF DESIGN IN THE CITY.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO I JUST
WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT I THINK
IT'S LIKE LANGUAGE SAYING IT'S
COMPLEX.
SO HOW DO HOW DO WE RECONCILE
THAT?
I I I TOTALLY COMMERCIALIZE
YOUR CONCERNS ABOUT NOT WANTING
DIFFERENT THINGS AND LETTING IN
PEOPLE LETTING PEOPLE GET AWAY
WITH SAYING YOU'RE DESTROYING
MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
I TOTALLY GET AND PARTICULARLY
WHEN YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT IT
FROM THE IMPLICATIONS ABOUT THE
KINDS OF PEOPLE THAT WILL BE
MOVING IN, THAT'S NOT A GOOD
WAY TO THINK ABOUT IT OR FRAME
IT.
WE SHOULDN'T GO THERE AT THE
SAME TIME PEOPLE ARE SAYING I'M
REALLY WORRIED THAT SOMEONE'S
GOING TO BUILD A THREE STOREY
STRUCTURE TEN FEET FROM MY
HOUSE AND WE'VE BEEN SAYING NO,
THAT WON'T HAPPEN.
THEY'RE REGULATIONS IN PLACE
THAT WILL PREVENT THAT KIND
OF THING FROM HAPPENING.
I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN NOT THAT PARTICULAR I
DON'T THINK WE'VE MADE THOSE
DECISIONS.
I THINK THE THING THAT
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS SAID IS
THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE AN 80
FOOT EIGHTY FIVE FOOT MID RISE
RIGHT ON THE PROPERTY LINE NEXT
TO YOUR HOUSE, WHICH MEANS
THERE ARE DESIGN STANDARDS IN
PLACE.
>> RIGHT.
THAT TAKE ACCOUNT OF THE KINDS
OF DISRUPTION THAT PEOPLE ARE
MOST SCARED ABOUT FOR AN EIGHTY
EIGHTY FIVE FOOT MID RISE WHICH
IS ONLY CURRENTLY PERMITTED IN
TRANSITION SO THAT THAT DOESN'T
ADDRESS THE PROXIMATE CONCERN
AROUND THE FOLKS THAT ARE IN
OUR ONE OR TWO BECAUSE TODAY
YOU CAN BUILD A THIRTY FIVE
FOOT HIGH, YOU KNOW, BIGFOOT.
SO YOU KNOW THERE'S PICTURES
RIGHT NOW IF YOU GO ON SOCIAL
MEDIA OF NEIGHBORHOOD STARTER
HOUSES BEING SUBSUMED INTO A
BIGFOOT AND THERE IS NOTHING
FOR THE NEIGHBOR TO DO TO STOP
THAT EXCEPT FOR BUYING THE LAND
THEMSELVES AND THEN NOT
DEVELOPING ONE OF THOSE PLACES
WHERE ACTUALLY PEOPLE COULD DO
WHAT YOU'RE WORRIED ABOUT RIGHT
NOW.
RIGHT.
SO WHERE YEAH.
WHERE AND WHEN ARE WE GOING TO
PROVIDE THAT KIND
OF UNDERSTANDING AND
CLARIFICATION SO FOLKS GET
WHAT'S HAPPENING SO AND WHERE
DO WE DECIDE WE NEED HERE'S A
GOOD PLACE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
PUTTING STEP BACK REQUIREMENTS
AND HOW ARE WE GOING TO DO THAT
AND WHEN ARE WE GOING TO DO
THAT IF NOT IN THIS PLAN?
WHAT I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
IS HOW CAN I TELL PEOPLE WE
HERE YOU WHERE YOU ARE THINKING
ABOUT THAT WE'RE GOING TO TAKE
CARE OF IT.
WE'RE JUST NOT GOING TO GET
INTO THAT GRADE LEVEL OF DETAIL
HERE.
>> WELL, WE'VE BEEN TELLING
THAT'S WHAT WE'VE BEEN SAYING
SINCE THE VERY BEGINNING IS
THAT I'M SORRY YOU FEEL
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THE LEVEL
OF VAGUENESS BUT THIS IS A
VISIONARY DOCUMENT THAT WE WILL
GET TO THOSE IN THE UDC UPDATE
BECAUSE THAT'S THE TRUTH WE'RE
NOT GOING TO OUTLINE HERE
SPECIFIC CAPEX SET SET BACKS,
HIGHTS, WHATEVER WHATEVER I
TOTALLY GOT YEAH.
>> I'M TRYING TO AND YOU KNOW,
THIS IS A COMPLICATED LONG TERM
PROCESS AND YOU MAKE DECISIONS
AT DIFFERENT STAGES OF THE GAME
AND I'M JUST TRYING TO FRAME IT
OUT AND ANTICIPATE WHERE ARE WE
GOING TO DEAL WITH WHAT AND HOW
DO WE FRAME IT SO THAT WE'RE
HEADING IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
.
>> IS THIS IN REFERENCE TO PAGE
SIXTY TWO RESPONDING TO THE
POTENTIAL STATEMENT THAT WE'RE
GOING TO STREAMLINE PROCESSES
TO MAKE THINGS GO MORE QUICKLY
WHICH I TOTALLY I'M BORED WITH
.
I GET THAT DEVELOPERS
ESPECIALLY LOCAL DEVELOPERS ARE
FRUSTRATED.
I DON'T WANT TO SAY WE'RE GOING
TO ELIMINATE ALL REQUIREMENTS
SO THAT ANYTHING CAN GET BUILT
ANYWHERE AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO
DEAL WITH THAT KIND OF I DON'T
THINK THIS PLAN SAYS THAT.
>> NO, BUT THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE
ARE HEARING.
>> SO HOW DO WE ADD LANGUAGE TO
MAKE IT CLEAR WE'RE NOT SAYING
THAT AND I THINK THIS IS FALSE
AND I THINK IT ACTUALLY
COUNCIL'S ALREADY DIRECTED A
LOT OF THIS WORK AND IT'S NOT
IT IS TO STREAMLINE THE
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS BUT
I THINK IT'S MAYBE THAT'S A
PLACE THAT WE CAN GO TO LOOK
FOR THAT LANGUAGE.
IT IS HOW DO WE APPLY OUR
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK IN A MORE
EFFICIENT FRANKLY QUICK MANNER?
BECAUSE IF WE IF WE MAINTAIN
OUR STANDARDS WE HAVE NOW BUT
WE CAN DO IT FASTER.
THAT'S ACTUALLY GOING TO HELP
WITH HOUSING PRODUCTION FULL
STOP.
AND SO I THINK THAT'S A BIG
PART OF THE RESOLUTIONS THAT
CAME OUT OF THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHICH IS
ALSO NOW INCORPORATED IN THIS
BY REFERENCE BUT SO THAT'S ONE
WAY.
>> SO MAYBE FOR MAYBE FOR
LANGUAGE I GUESS I MEAN WHAT
IT'S BOILING DOWN TO THEM.
IT'S FINE TO ADD LANGUAGE THAT
WE IN THE PLAN WE'RE SAYING WE
NEED TO STREAMLINE TO MAKE IT
MORE AFFORDABLE BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T FLY DEVELOPERS.
BUT WE ALSO RECOGNIZE THAT
WE'RE NOT JUST SEEING
REGULATIONS WOULD APPLY TO
CONTROL THAT DEVELOPERS SURE WE
CAN TOTALLY SAY THAT ANOTHER
THING THAT MIGHT JUST HELP I
MEAN BECAUSE I THINK THIS IS A
SIMPLE STRAIGHTFORWARD POINT
AND I THINK WE'VE ALREADY
LEGISLATED A BUNCH OF THESE
THEY'VE ALREADY GONE THROUGH
LET'S JUST QUOTE THAT SOURCE
THAT'S IN THE APPENDIX THAT'S
IN THE REVIEW APPENDIX LIKE WE
KNOW THIS IS ONE THING PEOPLE
SAY AND WE KNOW OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT I DON'T KNOW OR JUST
TOSSED OUT BUT I FEEL LIKE WE
ARE GETTING INTO REALLY
INTERESTING DEBATES.
BUT IT'S REALLY LATE.
OK, TO FOCUS ON THESE EDITS
BECAUSE IT'S BECAUSE WE NEED TO
GET THIS BACK TO THE
CONSULTANTS SO THAT IT CAN COME
BACK TO US SO THAT WE CAN
APPROVE IT AND SO I'M WORRIED
ABOUT US.
>> I'M NOT FAULTING ANYONE FOR
NOT MODERATING ANYTHING BUT I'M
WONDERING IF WE NEED TO LOOK
FOCUS MORE ON THE EDITS AND
THEN IF THERE ARE THINGS THAT
WE STILL THINK WE HAVEN'T
REALLY ADDRESSED, WE ANOTHER
MEETING WHERE WE CAN TALK MORE
ABOUT BROADER ISSUES.
BUT YOU KNOW YEAH.
>> LET LET ME LET ME DO THIS.
I THINK WHAT I'LL DO IS WE'RE
GOING TO GO BACK TO THE
ROBERT'S RULES KIND OF LIKE LET
ME CALL ON FOLKS LET'S ON THIS
PARTICULAR ONE THE SUTTONS
ALREADY EXISTS.
IT SAYS THE CITY WILL NEED TO
REVIEW REWRITE ZONING CODE AND
ALSO STREAMLINE DEVELOPER
REVIEW PROCESS TO MORE EASILY
DEVELOP THESE TYPES
OF DIFFERENT HOUSING THAT
THAT'S ALREADY ON PAGE SIXTY
AND THE CHANGE THE EDIT THAT IS
PROPOSED IS TO SAY TO SUPPORT
AFFORDABILITY GOALS TO MORE
EASILY TO DEVELOP TWO TO FOUR
UNIT HOUSING WHOSE PRODUCTION
HAS DECLINED OVER THE PAST
DECADE.
THAT IS WHAT I WANT TO FOCUS ON
NOTHING.
>> SO BECAUSE THIS SUN'S
ALREADY EXISTS, WHO IS IN FAVOR
OF SPECIFYING SUPPORTING
AFFORDABILITY GOALS AND TWO TO
FOUR UNIT HOUSING AND CALLING
THAT MISSING MIDDLE BECAUSE
THAT ALSO I JUST WANT TO POINT
OUT DOES NOT ACTUALLY ALIGN
WITH THE EXACT DEFINITION
THAT'S IN THE GLOSSARY.
>> IT'S MUCH BROADER.
SO YEAH, MISSING MIDDLE IS
GENERALLY BROADER THAN TWO TO
FOUR UNITS BUT THAT IS A
PARTICULARLY LIKE TYPOLOGY THAT
WE'VE CALLED OUT IN THE
APPENDIX HAVING SHRUNK OVER THE
LAST TEN YEARS.
I THINK THAT'S WHY THAT WAS SO
SUGGESTED.
>> I WOULD SUGGEST EVERY LINE
OF WHAT YOU ARE SAYING IS THAT
WE I WOULD SUPPORT MISSING
MIDDLE STRIKE TWO TO FOUR UNITS
AND I WANTED TO REFERENCE THEM
DO IT WITH A FOOTNOTE TO WHERE
THEY ARE IN THE GLOSSARY OR
MAKE A NOTE TO SAY THAT THESE
ARE THE TYPES OF DWELLINGS THAT
HAVE BEEN LOST OVER THE LAST
TWENTY OR THIRTY YEARS.
>> OK, I GOT IT.
ALL RIGHT.
I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE A VOTE ON
THAT JUST TO KEEP THINGS MOVING
BECAUSE WE ARE OK.
>> OK SIWAN WHERE IS THAT
EXISTING SENTENCE?
IT'S ON PAGE SIXTY SIXTY AT
SIXTY
GOT THE FIRST PARAGRAPH.
>> YEP.
SO AGAIN BECAUSE LIKE I DON'T
WANT TO DEBATE THE MERITS
OF ACTUAL SENTENCE ITSELF IT
ALREADY EXISTS IN THE PLAN SO
THE ONLY CHANGE THAT'S
CURRENTLY PROPOSED IS
SPECIFYING SUPPORTING
AFFORDABILITY AND THEN MAKING
IT EASIER TO DO TWO FOR UNITS
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF MAKING
THE CHANGE WHICH CHANGE THE
RIGHT TO CLARIFY IT WOULD BE TO
ADD SUPPORT AFFORDABILITY GOALS
AND MORE EASILY DEVELOPED TO OR
FOR UNIT HOUSING.
>> OK, SO USE DIDN'T TAKE UP
WHAT I JUST SAID WHICH WAS TO
SAY I THINK MIDDLE AND THEN
STRIKE THE TWO YOU OH I THOUGHT
I THOUGHT YOU WERE SAYING
STRIKE THE MISSING MIDDLE SO
THAT'S FINE.
SO THAT'S ONE STRIKE.
OH IT'S THOSE AND I'M OK WITH
THAT TO DOESN'T HAVE TO BE TO
TO SUPPORT NO GOT ME ON.
OH YEAH OK GOT IT.
WELL LET'S JUST TAKE A VOTE
THIS IS WITH RESPECT TO SAYING
THE CITY WILL NEED TO REVIEW
AND REWRITE THE ZONING
CODE ALSO STREAMLINE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS TO SUPPORT
AFFORDABILITY GOALS INTO MORE
EASILY DEVELOPED MISSING MIDDLE
INSTEAD OF WHAT IT SAYS RIGHT
NOW.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S FINE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR RAISE YOUR
HAND ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR,
FIVE.
THOSE TWO OK.
OK SO ALL RIGHT.
LET'S MOVE ON.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THE NEXT ONE IS DELETE FIVE
POINT ONE AND ALL REFERENCES TO
THE POLICY GOAL OF DIVERSIFYING
ECONOMY AND TAX BASE.
>> YEAH, I WILL TAKE THIS ONE
UP FIRST BECAUSE I'VE ALWAYS
MAINTAINED THAT A CITY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT LOOKS
AT THE NEXT TWENTY THIRTY YEARS
NEEDS TO HAVE A KEEN FOCUS ON
DIVERSIFYING ECONOMIC BASE.
WE TAKE IT FOR GRANTED THAT WE
HAVE A VERY ROBUST AND
INNOVATION DRIVEN CENTER BUT WE
NEED TO CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON
THAT AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
I GIANT CAME AND SPOKE TO
COMMISSION ABOUT SO I DON'T
AGREE WITH THIS PROPOSED AND
WILL BE VOTING AGAINST THAT.
>> WHO WANTS TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF IT?
>> I RIGHT YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH
I I THINK I'VE SAID IT A DOZEN
TIMES AT THE TABLE.
I JUST THINK IN PRINCIPLE I
AGREE WITH WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
IS THAT IF WE WERE JUST MAKING
A BROAD STATEMENT YES WE WANT
TO DIVERSIFY THE ECONOMY AND
THE TAX BASE BUT I JUST I THINK
IT I DON'T THINK IT IS HELPFUL
BECAUSE OF WHAT IT LEANS
TOWARDS, WHICH IS THE CREATION
OF THESE OPPORTUNITY OR THESE
EMPLOYMENT ZONES OR A LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL ONLY ZONE AS A MEANS
FOR US TO TRY TO DO IT.
I THINK WE'RE IN A VERY UNIQUE
SITUATION WITH THE UNIVERSITY
BEING HERE AS A PRIMARY JOB
CREATOR AND I THINK WE'RE
WORKING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT
THAT WE FIND OURSELVES IN AND I
DON'T WANT US TO BANK LAND IN
ORDER TO POTENTIALLY TRY TO
DIVERSIFY THE TAX BASE.
>> I THINK I JUST DON'T THINK
THAT'S A GOOD USE OF OUR LAND
POLICY.
SO YOUR CONCERN IS THAT THIS
PARTICULAR GOAL WOULD BE USED
IN OPERATIONALIZED TO PROPOSE
EMPLOYMENT EXCLUSIVE DISTRICTS
EVEN THOUGH THAT'S NOT
NECESSARILY SPECIFIED AS THE
PLANET MR. GIANT CAME AND SAID
WE NEED TO HE SAID PLEASE BE
CAREFUL WITH WHAT YOU'RE ABOUT
TO DO.
IT'S ONLY FOUR PERCENT OF THE
LAND OR TWO PERCENT OF THE LAND
BUT IT'S NOT ACTUALLY TWO
PERCENT BECAUSE IT'S TWO
PERCENT OF THE THIRTEEN PERCENT
AND SO IT WINDS UP BEING A
HIGHER PERCENTAGE OF WHAT'S
AVAILABLE.
SO IT'S ALMOST TWENTY SEVEN
PERCENT OF WHAT'S AVAILABLE
WHEN YOU ACTUALLY LOOK AT
WHAT'S AVAILABLE TO DEVELOP.
SO THAT'S PART OF WHAT I WAS
PUSHING BACK AGAINST.
>> OK, GOTCHA.
ALL RIGHT, LET'S LET EVERYBODY
ELSE FEEL STRONGLY ABOUT THIS
ONE OTHERWISE GUYS JUST GO
STRAIGHT OVER.
>> I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT
I THINK THERE'S A TYPO IN THE
DOCUMENT SO I THINK THE
SUGGESTION IF I'M CORRECT IS TO
DELETE GO FIVE COMPLETELY SO
THAT WOULD BE PAGES 78 AND 79.
>> WELL, NOT JUST FIVE POINT
ONE AND ALL REFERENCES I THINK.
>> BUT I JUST WANT BE CLEAR I
THINK WHAT WE'RE DISCUSSING IS
DELETING FIVE ALTOGETHER WHICH
IS A FIVE POINT ONE IN FIVE
POINT TWO.
>> YEAH.
OH I'M SORRY IT SHOULD BE GO
FIVE BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE
STRATEGY FIVE POINT ONE TO GO
FIVE IS THAT CORRECT BUT ALSO
SORRY AND BOTH STRATEGIES FIVE
ONE AND FIVE TO TWO IF YOU DO
THE GOAL AND ALL THE STRATEGIES
.
>> YEAH WAIT OK I JUST WANTED
TO CLARIFY THAT BECAUSE YEAH
WELL IS THAT CORRECT FOR THE
COMMISSIONER THAT SUBMITTED
THIS I SUSPECT THAT
COMMISSIONER IS NOT IN
ATTENDANCE THIS EVENING.
>> OK, I COULD BE WRONG DOING
WELL WANT TO FESS UP.
>> I HAVE TO LOOK SO IT'S WHAT
PAGES ARE WE TALKING ABOUT AGE
SEVENTY NINE WHICH IS THE GOAL
FIVE STRATEGY AND LET'S GO TO
IN THE MEANTIME MR. WEATHERBY.
SO I THINK IF I LOOK AT GOAL SO
I'M ON PAGE SEVENTY EIGHT.
>> YEP.
AND I FEEL LIKE SECURE A FAIR
SHARE THE COMPANIES THAT GROW
OUT OF UNIVERSITIES IS PROBABLY
A REASONABLE GOAL FOR US AS A
CITY.
I THINK IT'S FIVE POINT ONE
DOESN'T SAY ANYTHING ABOUT
LAND.
IT DOESN'T SAY I DON'T THINK WE
WANT TO GIVE THE BOOT TO
STARTUPS JUST YEAH BECAUSE SO I
THINK I'M GOOD WITH FIVE POINT
ONE STAYING IN FIVE POINT TWO I
THINK GETS MORE TO THE LAND
ISSUE BUT I KNOW THAT WE ARE
SUSTAINABLE GROUP HAS ASKED YOU
KNOW THEY'VE ADDED THIS I DON'T
KNOW I'M AS I'M LOOKING AT IT
NOW I AM MORE IN FAVOR OF THESE
BECAUSE I THINK WE DON'T WANT
TO I DON'T THINK OTHER
BUSINESSES ARE GOING TO TAKE
THE PLACE OF THE UNIVERSITY.
>> I THINK THE UNIVERSITY IS
YOU KNOW, THE THE BIG OLD
ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM OR
OPPORTUNITY OR WHATEVER YOU
WANT TO SAY.
>> BUT I THINK HAVING NOTHING
ABOUT ANYTHING ELSE ANY OTHER
LIKE I THINK HAVING THIS
STRATEGY IS I'M OK WITH LEAVING
THEN OK.
>> GOT IT.
THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
YEP.
HAMMERSCHMIDT LET'S TAKE A VOTE
.
I DON'T I MEAN I CARE BUT LOOK
AT THIS IF WE LEAVE IT IN A
TIME TO ME THIS ONE IS ALWAYS
ABOUT THE FIVE.
ONE SPECIFICALLY HAS ALWAYS
BOTHERED ME.
IT FEELS MORE LIKE A METRIC
THAN A STRATEGY BECAUSE LIKE
WHAT IS IT AND WE SHOULD DEFINE
IT.
>> IT IS LIKE WHAT IS A FAIR
SHARE.
THIS IS SO HYPER FOCUSED ON
STARTUPS FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
>> I MEAN IT SAYS UNIVERSITIES
BUT WE ALL KNOW WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT AND THE BASICALLY
ONLY GIVES YOU THEM AS AN
EXAMPLE.
I DON'T MIND THE GOAL.
I THINK THE GOAL IS FINE.
>> I DON'T LIKE THE STRATEGY
THAT DOESN'T REALLY ADDRESS THE
COMMENT AT ALL.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
LET'S TRY TO SAY SPECIFIC AND
YOU NO I DON'T WANNA GET HURT
THE GOAL OK GOT IT.
>> THANK YOU.
OH YES I KNOW YOU'RE TRYING TO
MOVE ON BUT YEAH IN GENERAL I
UNDERSTAND COMMISSIONER SHE
SHE'S CONCERNED BUT I ALSO AM
THINKING ABOUT TWO ZERO
SUSTAINABILITY CIRCULAR GOALS
AND I THINK WE'VE DECIDED WE'RE
GOING TO ALLOW THEM TO COEXIST.
I REALLY DON'T LIKE THOUGH THE
STATEMENT THAT NUISANCE
REGULATION SHOULD BE REVIEWED
TO MINIMIZE COMPLAINTS WHILE
PRIORITIZING FLEXIBILITY
BECAUSE THAT SOUNDS TO ME LIKE
CODE WORD FOR WE'RE GOING TO
REDUCE OUR NUISANCE STANDARDS
AND I THOUGHT WE DECIDED NO,
WE'RE NOT GOING TO REDUCE OUR
NEWSROOM STANDARDS.
>> I ACTUALLY THINK THAT AROSE
FROM WILL LEAVE SUGGESTION THAT
THAT THERE WILL THERE ARE
NUISANCE REGULATIONS IN PLACE
AND THAT THEY WOULDN'T BE
NECESSARY THEY WOULDN'T BE
MINIMIZED THIS IS THE STATEMENT
HERE IS THAT LITERALLY WE WILL
REVIEW THE REGULATION TO
MINIMIZE COMPLAINTS WHICH IS A
STRANGE THAT'S A STRANGE YOU
KNOW I AGREE WITH THAT
STATEMENT.
>> I THINK YOU MEAN TO MINIMIZE
PROBLEMS NOT LOWERING THE
STANDARD BUT MAKING SURE THERE
ARE NO NUISANCES.
SO HOW DOES OWNING DO THAT?
>> WHAT DO YOU MEAN IF YOU HAVE
ALL USERS THAT ARE ALLOWED IN
ONE DISTRICT EVERYTHING GOES
YEAH.
>> I THOUGHT IF IF WE WANTED TO
REALLY MAKE SURE THAT THIS WAS
A REALLY INCLUSIVE I THOUGHT
WAS RECOGNIZING THAT THERE
MIGHT BE SOME INHERENT COMPLEX
IF YOU HAVE A TWENTY FOUR HOUR
DELIVERY OPERATION NEXT DOOR
LIKE IT'S IT'S LIKE I DON'T I
DON'T WANT TO SPEAK BUT PERHAPS
COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE PERHAPS
HERE FOR PEOPLE TO LIVE NEXT TO
THE TRAIN TRACKS.
THERE'S THESE INHERENT
CONFLICTS AND IF WE WANT TO
REALLY EMBRACE THAT I DO THINK
THE QUESTION IS WE MIGHT HAVE
TO THINK ABOUT WHAT THE
EXPECTATIONS ARE FOR QUIET LIKE
NOISE.
>> SO YOU READ THAT WHEN IT
SAYS NUISANCE REGULATIONS IT
SHOULD BE REVIEWED.
>> YOUR READERS SHOULD BE
LISTENED.
>> I THINK IF WE WANT LIKE WE
HAVE NOISE LIKE A NOISE
ORDINANCE YOU WOULD HEAR
TRADITIONALLY I GUESS IT'S THE
ORDINANCE SO FOR EXAMPLE SO
NOISE ORDINANCE I DON'T THINK
THAT THERE'S PROBABLY MUCH
CHANGE TO NOISE ORDINANCE IS
ACTUALLY PRETTY UNIFORM BUT OUR
LIGHTING ORDINANCE IS DIFFERENT
WHEN A LIGHT IS SHINING ON A
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OR ON A
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY OR THE
PROPERTY LINES ADJACENT TO
THOSE IT'S DEPENDING ON ON
ZONING CURRENTLY.
>> AND SO IF WE'RE GOING TO
CREATE ZONING DISTRICTS THAT
ARE INCLUSIVE OF ALL THOSE
THINGS, WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
MAKE SOME DECISIONS ABOUT WHICH
OF THOSE STANDARDS ARE GOING TO
APPLY.
>> MAYBE JUST IF WE DELETED TO
MINIMIZE COMPLAINTS BECAUSE
THAT SOUNDS STRANGE BUT IT'S A
NUISANCE
.
REGULATIONS SHOULD BE REVIEWED
TO PRIORITIZE FLEXIBILITY TO
ALLOW FOR WELL IT'S MORE I
THINK IT DOES BUT I THINK IT'S
REALLY TO ALLOW RESIDENTIAL TO
COEXIST WITH HYBRID HYBRID
BUSINESSES AND BLA BLA BLA.
YEAH.
I MEAN THE MOST KIND OF LIKE
WHEN I THINK NEWSES I THINK
IT'S SAROSH A FACTORY THAT'S
LIKE THE MOST KIND OF LIKE YOU
KNOW IT'S YOU EPITOMIZED HOT
PEPPER THOUGH ACTUALLY CAUSE
LIKE A LOT OF YEAH IT WAS LIKE
A LOT OF TEARS AND STUFF LIKE
IT'S KIND OF LIKE DENHA LITTLE
OVERSPRAY LITERALLY BUT THAT
THAT WAS KIND OF LIKE THE MOST
OPTIMIZES LIKE NUISANCE CASE
IT'S EMANATION VIBRATIONS,
ODORS PAST LIKE PROPERTY MINES.
THERE'S GOING TO BE EXISTING
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND ALSO
NUISANCE REGULATIONS THAT ARE
CONDITIONED BE TALKING ABOUT
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
>> YEAH.
SO APOLOGY'S I'M TELLING YOU
THAT KNOW THAT THAT'S AT 11:00
SO I THINK WE OK SO ON THIS
PARTICULAR ONE WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT DELETION OF GOAL FIVE
POINT ONE.
YEAH FIVE FIVE FIVE THE I MEAN
WE'VE OBVIOUSLY RAISED ANOTHER
ISSUE WITH FIVE POINT TWO AND
THAT SHOULD BE DISCUSSED
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK THIS
ACTUALLY ENCAPSULATES WHAT WE
WERE TALKING WHAT OUR INTENT
WAS AND I THINK PART OF THIS
WAS MR. LEAF'S COMMENT.
YOU KNOW HOUSING SHOULD BE
ALLOWED EVERYWHERE IF YOU WANT
TO BUILD IT.
BUT IF YOU DECIDED TO BUILD
HOUSING NEXT TO LET'S SAY A
STORAGE FACILITY OR A SERRATIA
FACTORY, THERE WOULD BE AND
THEN THERE WOULD PROBABLY BE A
NUISANCE LAWSUIT.
RIGHT BASED ON PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS.
RIGHT.
SO I THINK THE IDEA HERE WAS
THAT PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND
U.S. REGULATIONS WOULD CONTINUE
TO BE IN EFFECT TO MAINTAIN AND
PROMOTE HEALTH, SAFETY, GENERAL
WELFARE.
BUT WE SHOULD CONTINUE TO ALLOW
OR PERMIT HOUSING.
I DON'T KNOW THAT A DEVELOPER
WOULD BE LIKE OH MAN YEAH,
THERE'S WASTEWATER TREATMENT
PLANT RIGHT NEXT.
I MEAN ACTUALLY THOSE ARE
PRETTY FINE BUT SAROJA FACT I'M
GOING TO GO BACK TO STICK TO
THAT'S THE MORE LIKELY
RESIDENTIAL WE PERMIT
RESIDENTIAL BUT WE ALSO PERMIT
SUCH FACTORIES.
YEAH THAT'S THE MORE LIKELY WE
DON'T WE DON'T HAVE FOUR
CLASSIFICATIONS FOR PEOPLE WE
DON'T HAVE A SERRATIA FACTORY
OK SO LET'S FIRST OF ALL LET'S
JUST TAKE THE ISSUE ONE HAND
WHICH IS GOHL FIVE AND THEN
LET'S JUST LET'S KIND
OF HIGHLIGHT FIVE POINT TWO FOR
STAFF TO REVIEW.
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE A PLANT?
OK, COOL.
ALL RIGHT.
ON GOAL NUMBER FIVE DIVERSIFY
THE ECONOMY TO GROW THE
NONRESIDENTIAL TAX BASE THOSE
IN FAVOR OF DELETION RAISE YOUR
HAND THOSE IN FAVOR OF KEEPING
SORRY.
>> OK, SO WE'RE GOING TO KEEP
ALL FIVE OK BUT YES.
YES, PLEASE REVIEW FIVE POINT
TWO.
I'M PRETTY SURE IT GOES BACK TO
MR. LEIFS COMMENTS WITH RESPECT
TO NUISANCE.
OK, WE ARE NOW ON TO PAGE
EIGHTY SIX THIS WAS WE ALREADY
TOUCHED ON THIS RIGHT?
>> THIS WAS WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
DESH HAVE WE STAFF DO YOU HAVE
WHAT YOU NEED ON THESE TWO?
I THINK IDEA WAS LET'S ADD IN
SOME THE EXISTING PROGRAMS THAT
WE HAVE IN THE BOX AND THEN
LET'S CREATE REFERENCES ON PAGE
THIRTY SIX OR WHATEVER THAT
LIKE LITTLE THOUGHT BUBBLES
THING IS AND THEN REINFORCE
PAGE 86 WITH COMMENTS FROM THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION.
I THINK I HAVE WHAT I NEED BUT
I WANT TO BE CLEAR THE EMPHASIS
IS ON OUR CURRENT REGULATORY
STRUCTURE NOT THE TWENTY FOUR
NATURAL FEATURES, CORRECT.
>> CORRECT YES THAT IS CORRECT
AND JUST GOT NINETY EIGHT TO
NINE THAT COMMENT JUST CUT IT
THE SECOND ONE JUST I DON'T
WANT TO TALK ABOUT THAT.
>> THE OTHER COMMENT ABOUT THIS
OK BUT YES LET'S WAIT THE WHOLE
THE REQUESTED EDIT DELETE JUST
THE NATURAL FEATURES PLAN I
HAVE READ THE RESOLUTION BLAH
BLAH BLAH I MEAN YEAH NO I AND
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD TRY TO
THINK OF A PRACTICAL
ALTERNATIVE TO SITE PLAN AS A
TRIGGER THAT MIGHT BE SOMETHING
THAT WE MIGHT WANT TO CONSIDER
IN THE FUTURE THAT THAT'S A
THAT'S A LITTLE DANCE FOR 11:00
P.M. RIGHT NOW.
OK, LET'S MOVE ON TO CHAPTER
FIVE PAGE ONE OH NINE YES OR NO
NO I THINK IS THE FUTURE LAND
USE MAP AND I THINK THE
MAJORITY NOW OF THE COMMENTS
ARE GOING TO BE FOCUSED ON THIS
MAP AND DID WE ADD TO THE
PACKET PRESENTATION?
>> SO I DID HAND OUT A BIT OF A
KEY OR AN INDEX TO SOME MAPS
THAT ARE INCLUDED BY ONE OF THE
COMMISSIONERS.
I ALSO HAVE SORT OF DONE
EXCERPTS OR SCREENSHOTS OF BOTH
SIDES OF ALL OF THOSE
GEOGRAPHY'S WITH THE ZONING
UNDERLYING AREA AGREEMENT AND
WHAT THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP
CURRENTLY IS.
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DELVE INTO
ANY OF THOSE WITH MORE DETAIL,
I'M HAPPY TO PUT THOSE UP.
YEAH,
OK, SO THIS WAS ONE
OF THE TO FRAME THE QUESTION AS
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE WERE
ACTUALLY BACK IN WHEN D ONE WAS
IMPLEMENTED THERE WERE
ADJACENCIES BETWEEN LIKE D ONE
AND AFTER C FOR EXAMPLE.
I THINK I BACK IN LIKE THIS
WOULD HAVE BEEN LIKE TWENTY 12
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT THIS THE
QUESTION HERE IS AREAS THAT
HAVE HUB DIRECTLY ADJACENT
RESIDENTIAL SHOULD THERE BE A
BUFFER.
>> SO YOU'RE SKIPPING THE FIRST
OH YEAH SORRY.
>> NO NO SORRY LET'S GO DOWN
ZONING ON OUR FOR TO SEE DID
SOMEBODY WANT TO GIVE US YAYO.
THERE ARE A BUNCH OF PLACES
THAT ARE CURRENTLY ZONED R
THREE ARE FOR A COMMERCIAL SHOW
UP AS RESIDENTIAL IN THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP WHICH WOULD BE A
MORE RESTRICTIVE ZONING
CATEGORY THAN THEY ARE TODAY.
>> OK THEY ARE TODAY AND SO I
THINK THEY HANDED OUT THIS VERY
HANDY KEY SO WE COULD EVEN GO
BY NUMBER AND START WITH NUMBER
ONE IF YOU WANT TO CALL MY YEAH
I WOULD JUST A LOT OF THESE ARE
MULTIFAMILY BUT I JUST WANT TO
FRAME WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
RESIDENTIAL HOMES INCORPORATING
TOWNHOMES AND MULTIPLE UNITS
AND SO UNDER OUR CURRENT
FRAMEWORK THE ONLY WAY YOU
COULD DO SOME OF THOSE BUILDING
TYPOLOGIES WAS UNDER MULTIPLE
FAMILY AND SO UNDER THE
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT ADDING
FLEXIBILITY, YOU KNOW, AGAIN AT
THE TIME THIS MAP WAS
CREATED THERE WAS NO LIMIT
THERE WAS HIGHER HEIGHT LIMITS
IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
SO I JUST THAT'S SOME OF THE
RATIONALE WHY YOU SAW THE MAP
PRESENTED IN THE WAY IT IS.
THAT SAID, I'M HAPPY TO PULL UP
SLIDE ON.
THANK YOU AND WHAT WOULD BE THE
ALTERNATIVE TO TRYING TO AVOID
DOWN ZONING HERE?
>> MY CONCERN IS THAT THE
TRANSITION TO TRANSITION I MEAN
THAT GENERAL AS A GENERAL RULE
THAT DON'T HAPPEN LIKE
COMMERCIAL TRANSITION OFF OUR
FAWZIA'S TRANSITION.
>> I MEAN THAT'S WHY I THINK
IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF MILERA
THAT CAME UP TODAY FROM THE
PERSON WHO LIVES ON.
OH MY GOSH WHAT IS THAT WEST
STREET FLEX OR SOMETHING WITH
AN F IT'S FILCH FELT RIGHT LIKE
THAT'S WHY THAT'S TRANSITION
BECAUSE THAT'S CURRENTLY OUR
FORESE.
>> I THINK THE PERSON WHO
BROUGHT UP THE AREA AROUND
AAGOT POND WHICH IS PROBABLY
SOMETHING WE SHOULD TALK ABOUT
WE AGREED TO TALK TO BECAUSE
THERE ARE A BUNCH PARCELS THERE
THAT ARE CURRENTLY THERE ARE 4C
ONE THAT ZONED ONE THAT'S ON
THE M1.
SO I THINK THERE IN SOME WAYS
THERE WAS LIKE A ONE TO ONE
TRANSLATION ALMOST LIKE
AUTOMATED BUT THEN THERE ARE
THESE OTHER DISCRETIONARY MOVES
THAT HAPPEN THAT I THINK WE
SHOULD DISCUSS.
SO OK, SO THIS IS ZONE ONE
BRETT ON THE SCREEN HERE.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
AND THIS IS IS THIS THIS IS
ARROWOOD.
>> YES.
ARROWOOD WOULD BE FURTHER DOWN
HERE.
>> THIS IS THOSE TWO LIKE ONE
THOSE HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
THERE THE COLORFUL YEAH.
>> YEAH THE ONE OR WHATEVER IT
WAS CALLED IT IS THE ROBINSON
BROTHERS NORTH THE SKY.
>> YEAH THAT'S RIGHT NO GOT DO
YOU WANT TO STAY HERE AN R FOR
A WHAT'S THE DEVELOPMENT THAT'S
GOING IN THERE.
>> THAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE THE
ARBOR VILLAGES SORRY THE
VILLAGE OF YEAH YEAH NO
VILLAGES WHICH IS SINGLE FAMILY
AND MULTIFAMILY RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH THAT'S WHAT
THESE ARE REZONING WOULD MAKE
THEM NOT CONFORM AND CORRECT MY
CONCERN.
>> YEAH IT DEPENDS ON WHAT YOUR
RESIDENTIAL WHAT THEY WERE
PROPOSING WAS HOMES ATTACH
PRODUCTS.
YEAH.
AND APARTMENTS ALL THAT WOULD
BE WITHIN A THREE STORY
FRAMEWORK AND WHAT WOULD BE THE
LOGIC OF HAVING THIS LITTLE
ISLAND OF TRANSITION.
>> IT SEEMS LIKE A VERY BAD
IDEA.
>> THE YELLOW.
MM HMM.
SO THAT IS JUST A DEVELOPMENT.
ONE OF THE THINGS WAS
RECOGNIZING THAT THE OUTSIDE
THE CITY IS AN AREA THAT
DOESN'T HAVE AS MUCH ACCESSIBLE
SERVICES FROM A SORT OF FIFTEEN
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD
PERSPECTIVE, PARTICULARLY ON
THE SOUTH EAST SIDE CORNER
OF THE INTERSECTION
OF DEVELOPMENT THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY A BEAUTY THAT
INCLUDED SOME COMMERCIAL LAND
USE RIGHT AT THE CORNER THAT
WAS NEVER REALIZED SO IT'S
TAKING A LITTLE BIT CLUE FROM
THAT AND RECOGNIZING MAYBE THAT
THAT INTERSECTION WOULD HAVE
SOME MORE NODE TYPE DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL INCLUDING ANY
POTENTIAL FUTURE ANNEXATION
OF THE TOWNSHIP PROPERTIES.
>> SO WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY NODE
COULD BE
A COMMERCIAL CENTER.
IT COULD BE HIGHMORE INTENSE
DEVELOPMENT AT THE INTERSECTION
.
>> SO OK BECAUSE YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE A LOT OF DENSITY THERE.
UH, IF VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR OR
ANN ARBOR VILLAGES DOESN'T GET
BUILT, WE AREN'T GOING TO GET
ARE WE GOING TO GET THE
ROUNDABOUT BECAUSE THIS IS A
MESS OF TRAFFIC RIGHT NOW AN
AREA WILL CONTINUE TO BE A
MASSIVE TRAFFIC BECAUSE YOU GOT
SEVENTY FIVE THOUSAND PEOPLE
COMING INTO YOU TO GO TO WORK.
>> WELL YES BUT IT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO HAVE SOMETHING TO I
THINK THAT THERE ARE THERE ARE
INTENTIONS LOOKING AT THAT
INTERSECTION FROM THE CITY BUT
AS PART OF THAT DEVELOPMENT
THEY WERE CONTRIBUTING SOME TO
YET THOSE PLANS ARE PARALLEL.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THE CITY'S
PLANS ARE RELIANT.
I'M SURE THE CONTRIBUTION HELPS
BUT I DON'T I DON'T KNOW WHAT
WOULD HAPPEN WITH THAT PROJECT
IF THE PROJECT WASN'T REALIZED
.
>> I THOUGHT THEY WERE RELIANT
BUT COULD BE.
YEAH.
I MEAN SO I MEAN SOME OF THE
SOME OF THE QUESTIONS HERE IS
YOU HAVE SOME MULTIFAMILY
ZONING BUT IT'S IN A PATTERN
THAT IS RELATIVELY LOW SCALE.
SO I THINK I'M PRESUMING THE
REASON THAT THE PUBLIC COMMENT
WAS SUPPORTED BY THE
COMMISSIONER WAS DO WE WANT TO
EXPAND THE TRANSITION ZONE INTO
THOSE MULTIFAMILY AREAS?
RIGHT.
EVERYTHING THAT'S OUR STORE.
CORRECT.
CURRENTLY EVERYTHING THAT'S
AFTER MOVING IN TO TRANSITION
INSTEAD OF DOWN ZONING IT INTO
RESIDENTIAL.
NOW THAT RESIDENTIAL HAS A
THREE STOREY CAP WHICH AGAIN
MOST OF THIS PROPOSAL IS UNDER
CURRENTLY BUT YEAH, SOMEONE
ELSE COULD REALIZE SOMETHING
ELSE THAT WOULD BE BETTER THERE
IT YOU KNOW IT WILL CAUSE ANGER
AND OUTRAGE BECAUSE THERE ARE
TERRIBLE BUS SERVICE THERE.
THERE IS PONTIAC TRAIL IS TOO
NARROW TO ACTUALLY HAVE DECENT
BIKE LANES ON IT AND SO SOME
OF THE CRITERIA THAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT FOR TRANSITION ZONES
IS THAT THEY SHOULD BE WALKABLE
AND PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY.
ALL THAT DOES IS THROW MORE
RESIDENTS ONTO SOMETHING THAT
YOU KNOW, I HEAR ABOUT WHERE
SOME KIDS ARE GOING TO GET RUN
OVER BECAUSE THE SIDEWALK IS
TOO CLOSE TO THE STREET WHERE
PEOPLE DRIVE 55 MILES AN HOUR
ON IT.
>> SO THIS WILL BE SOMETHING
THAT RESIDENTS DO NOT THINK
REFLECTS THE CONTEXT BUT THEN
WE'RE DOWN ZONING.
YOU THINK WE SHOULD DOWNLOAD
ALREADY IS OF A DIFFERENT
ZONING BECAUSE THE RESIDENTIAL
IMAGINES I'VE HEARD COUNCIL
MEMBERS SAY THEY INTEND TO
RESTRICT THE UNIT COUNT INSIDE
THE RESIDENTIAL THIS NOW I'M
JUST SAYING WHAT I'VE HEARD AND
OUR POLICY ALLOWS WHAT TWENTY
UNITS PER ACRE IS THAT CORRECT?
>> WE'RE GOING TO DO THE MATH
REAL QUICK.
OK, SO WE ARE WE'RE GOING TO BE
DOWN ZONING AND AS MUCH AS I
HATE TO SAY THIS, I I REALLY I
SOMEONE CAN PUT A STICKER HERE
AND JUST PLAY THIS OVER AND
OVER AGAIN TO ME TO REMIND ME
THAT I SAID THIS THE ONE I
WANTED US TO GO TO JUST THREE
ZONES BUT I COULD IMAGINE THE
EXPANSE INTO SIX AND INSIDE
YOUR TRANSITION AND YOU COULD
HAVE TRANSITION LOW, MID AND
HIGH.
I WILL SEE THAT TO YOU SO THAT
WE DON'T SO NICE AND
RESIDENTIAL.
>> I WAS GOING TO MAKE THE SAME
COMMENT.
OH GOOD.
I'M SHOCKED THAT COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SAID I DON'T
THERE IS ALSO ANOTHER THERE IS
ANOTHER WAY TO UNDERSTAND THIS
IT COULD BE LOW MEDIUM HIGH
TRANSITION.
YES IT CAN ALSO BE THAT IT'S
ZONE TRANSITION AND WHEN A
PROJECT COMES IN WE IT IS
EVALUATED YOU KNOW IS THERE YOU
KNOW CAN THE INFRASTRUCTURE
SUPPORT IF IT'S IF IT COMES IN
AT SIX WELL PROBABLY THE
INFRASTRUCTURE CAN'T SUPPORT
THAT SO IT DOESN'T GET APPROVED
AT THAT BUT YEAH I MEAN I KNOW
I DON'T WANT TO DOWNLOAD EITHER
BUT THIS IS THE THING LIKE
WE'VE GOT THIS 34 CATEGORY
THING WHICH ALLOWS THIS DENSITY
WHICH I THINK IS FINE.
IT DOESN'T BOTHER ANYBODY BUT
WE HAVE THE WE HAVE THE
CONSTANT SPEEDING AND IT'S
CONSTANT GRIPES AND IRRITATION
AND INDUCERS INADEQUATE FOR THE
LOAD THERE.
>> YEAH IT IS.
WELL WE HAVE A FAILED
INTERSECTION AT WHAT'S IT
CALLED PONTIAC AND BERTEN
CORRECT.
>> SO WE CAN GET SOME OF THOSE
JOBS OUT OF THE CITY.
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP IT.
YEAH YEAH I KNOW WHY YOU FEEL
THAT DRIVE DOGBONE REDO OF N14
THAT WOULD HELP ME.
>> LET ME GET A PULSE CHECK
FROM STAFF ON BECAUSE THE
QUESTION RIGHT NOW IS WE DON'T
WANT A DOWN ZONE ARE FOR OUR
THREE BUT WE ALSO HAVE A
CONCERN WITH HUB.
SO THE IDEA OF GETTING MORE
GRANULAR WITH THE SEGMENTATION
OF CATEGORIES JUST WANT TO GET
A PULSE CHECK ON LIKE WELL I'D
LIKE TO BECAUSE IF I'M
UNDERSTANDING IT CORRECTLY OR
ARE WE TALKING ABOUT ADDING
CATEGORIES TO THE MAP IF THAT'S
THE CASE WE NEED TO DEFINE WHAT
THOSE CATEGORIES ARE GOING TO
LOOK LIKE AND OBVIOUSLY
ILLUSTRATE TO THE COMMUNITY
WHAT THOSE THINGS MIGHT THAT
WOULD REQUIRE.
>> WELL, THAT WOULD BE KIND
OF I THAT YOU SAID THAT IT'S
TRANSITION, RIGHT?
YEAH.
BE TRANSITIONAL.
YOU SAID BECAUSE I TRIED TO
ARTICULATE WE'RE ONLY TO DO
THREE ZONES AND YOU'RE LIKE OH
WE LOVE WHAT I'M SAYING BUT
THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE THAT YOU'RE
SEEING THINGS CLOSER.
>> BUT I JUST WANT TO BE SO SO
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
YOU'RE NOT ENVISIONING TO I'M
I'M TRYING TO RECONCILE A
LITTLE BIT OF THE COMMENTS
HERE.
WHAT I'M HEARING IT'S SOME
UNDERSTANDING ABOUT WHY IT
MIGHT BE CHALLENGING TO DO A
SINGLE ZONE FOR ALL OF THE
YELLOW IN THE CITY.
>> I AGREE WITH THAT.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY IT WILL
BE.
WE DON'T NECESSARILY NEED MORE
COLORS ON THE MAP TO DO THAT.
TO YOUR POINT, COMMISSIONER
DASH, I THINK IF THAT BECOMES
YELLOW, WHAT'S THE NEXT STEP
WITH THAT IN THIS PLAN THAT
SAYS TRUST US, WE'RE GOING TO
DO MULTIPLES LOOK LIKE I'M
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW HOW
THAT BALANCE HAPPENS AND ONE
WAY TO DO IT WOULD BE TO
ACTUALLY PUT A DIFFERENT COLOR
ON THERE THAT SAYS SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
>> ANOTHER ONE LIKE I JUST AND
IF YOU IF YOU PUT IN A NEW
TRANSITION AND YOU SAY BUT HERE
WE MIGHT DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT
AND YOU'VE OPENED UP TRANSITION
ALL OVER THE CITY TO HAVE THAT
SAME CONVERSATION BUT I THINK
WE ALREADY HAVE THAT RIGHT LIKE
ONE 14 DON'T WE HAVE DIDN'T WE
I FELT LIKE WE HAD A
CONVERSATION WHERE WE TRIED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THANK ACKNOWLEDGE
THE TRANSIT OPTION.
>> THERE'S ONE OF THESE POINTS
I'D LIKE MEDIUM SCALE I THINK
SO BECAUSE I WAS ON THE OTHER
BECAUSE OH WELL THAT'S TAPERING
THE HEIGHT.
YEAH.
WE ADDED HI TO TRANSITION.
YOU ADDED HIGH YEAH.
>> LEVELS ONE ADJACENT TO
ADJACENT SO THAT WE WEREN'T
DOING AN ARTIFICIAL STEP DOWN
NEXT TO EACH OTHER SO THEY
COULD THEY COULD STAY AT THE
SAME HEIGHT SO THAT'S ALL I'M
I'M JUST GETTING AT.
YOU HAVE ALREADY INTIMATED TO
ME BECAUSE I AM DISAPPOINTED
LIKE WE HAVEN'T TALKED ABOUT MY
DISAPPOINTMENT THAT WE CAN'T GO
FROM THIRTY FOUR ZONES TO THREE
LIKE YOU HAVE SAID THAT
REPEATEDLY I MICHELLE LOOKED AT
ME AND SAYS IT DONELLE AND SO
WE WE'VE SETTLED SOMEWHERE
AROUND THIRTEEN IS WHAT YOU ALL
HAVE NEVER COMMUNICATED AND I'M
STILL TRYING TO GET US TO
THREE.
>> YOU SAID THIS WELL THAT WAS
IT WAS THIS IS THIS IS A GREAT
EXAMPLE THAT TENSION.
SO LET'S JUST THINK ABOUT
TRANSITIONS ZONE.
YEAH.
TRANSITION ZONE GOES UP TO THE
HOPEI BECOMES THREE HUNDRED
THREE HUNDRED FEET.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, THERE'S NO HUB HERE.
YES.
SO THERE WOULD BE I DON'T SEE
ANY APPLICATION FEE SO THEN
WHAT'S THE NEXT HUB HEIGHT.
>> SO WE HAVEN'T DEFINED IT
YET.
RIGHT BUT FROM FROM FROM THE
CONTACTS THAT I'VE BEEN
ENVISIONING IT MIGHT BE SEVEN
STORIES MIGHT BE EIGHT STORIES
THAT MIGHT BE SOMETHING IN THAT
CATEGORY AND SO ONE QUESTION IS
IS THAT APPROPRIATE AT THIS AT
THIS CORRIDOR AND IF SO WHERE
AND THEN FROM THERE AS THAT
EXTENDS FURTHER INTO OTHER
GEOGRAPHIES?
I THINK THAT THE THE QUESTION
THAT WILL BE FEARFUL FOR PEOPLE
SEEING ON THE MAP IS HOW FAR
DOES THAT GO BEFORE AND WHAT
REQUIRES IT TO STEP BACK AND
STEP DOWN AND WE WON'T HAVE THE
ANSWERS TO THAT AND WE HAVE A
MODEL OF THAT AND ONE SO WHY
CAN'T WE JUST EXTEND THE MODEL
OF TC ONE INTO TRANSITION AND
YOU COULD SO SO LIKE I COULD
TELL YOU WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO
SEE IT JUST OVERLAY THE ONE SO
START WHERE THE YOU KNOW FIFTH
IT'S FIFTY FIVE FEET WITHIN X
AMOUNT OF DISTANCE OR FEET FROM
PRIMARY RESIDENTIAL AND AND
STEP UP STEP ON STEP UP STEP UP
AND JUST KEEP IN MIND THEN
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THAT SAME
TENSION WITH THE STADIUM WHERE
WITH THE STEP BACK SO YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE A LOT THE CORNERS
THAT WE'VE IDENTIFIED WITH
RELATIVELY SHALLOW LOTS WHERE
YOU MIGHT NOT HAVE MUCH TIME
BUT THAT'S THE STUFF THAT WE
WOULD THEN NEED TO WHEN WE GO
TO DO THE EUDI UTC CHANGES HAVE
IN FRONT OF US TO SAY IF WE
APPLY THIS HERE HERE'S WHAT
IT'S GOING TO DO.
SO HOW DO WE ADJUST?
YEAH SO CAN WE HAVE SELF
ADJUSTING ZONES YOU CAN BUT I
JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
THOSE AREN'T ALWAYS MEETING THE
GOAL OF STREAMLINING BE NO I
UNDERSTAND.
I UNDERSTAND AND THAT'S THAT'S
WHERE WE NEED TO HEAR FROM
DEVELOPERS THROUGH YOU TO SAY
HERE'S HOW YOU KNOW AND WE
HEARD THAT WOULD ARPA S RIGHT
FROM THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
RIGHT.
SO WE WE DID IT THERE THEN THEY
CAME AND SAID HEY YOUR DECISION
ON STREET YOU KNOW MASSING IS
JUST OUT OF WHACK FOR WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO.
CAN WE RELAX AND WE SELF ADJUST
IT TO TO MAKE THAT WORK?
I THINK WE SENT A REVISION TO
COUNCIL TO MAKE THAT KIND
OF DEVELOPMENT WORK.
>> SO I FEEL LIKE WE HAVE THE
TOOLS TO DO THAT.
>> HOW DO WE ARTICULATE HOW WE
INTEND TO USE THOSE TOOLS?
IT'S GOING TO BE SELF
ADJUSTING.
I THINK YOU YOU SAY THAT IT'S
GOING TO BE A TICK ONE STYLE
SELF ADJUSTING SO IT SAYS THAT
IT MAY SELF REGULATE HEIGHT
WHEN ADJACENT TO ESTABLISH
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
DO YOU SEE THE COMMISSIONER
TEAM HAMMERSCHMIDT IS SAYING I
DON'T NEED TO GIVE THEM FEET IN
THIS RANGE OF FEET RIGHT NOW IF
IF PEOPLE ARE INTERPRETING
TRANSITION TO START AT SEVEN
STORIES AND THAT WOULD BE
PEOPLE THEY'D BE LIKE BUT THE
OTHER THING THAT'S IN THIS PLAN
IS THAT WE'RE NOT BEING
CONSTRAINED BY INFRASTRUCTURE
WHICH DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE'RE
GOING TOTALLY NOT THINK ABOUT
INFRASTRUCTURE BUT IT JUST
MEANS THAT WHEN WE APPLY OUR
CATEGORY IT'S WHEN WE GET A
PROJECT THAT WE LOOK AT IT AND
WE GO OK, WELL NO YOU KNOW
YOU'RE AT THE LOW END OF WHAT
THIS THIS WITH THIS ZONE ALLOWS
BECAUSE OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE
ONE STARTS MUCH LOWER THAN
SUBSTORIES.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW WHY A
TRANSITION WOULD START.
THERE'S A MINIMUM OF SEVEN
STORIES THAT WILL START LOWER
THAN THAT.
I WOULD THINK SO.
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M SAYING.
I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO
OVERLAY TAKE ONE THEN WE SHOULD
GIVE THEM STORIES.
WE SHOULD SAY OK, IT COULD BE
FIVE, IT STARTS IN FIVE OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT IS LOW A
HIGH AND THEN WE SAY LOW
APPROXIMATELY THREE STORIES IN
RESIDENTIAL I'M TAKING A PAGE
ONE FIFTEEN AT THIS TABLE WE'RE
OK.
>> YEAH.
SO I MEAN JUST SOME YOU JUST
LIKE APPROXIMATELY THREE
STORIES TO I DON'T KNOW I DON'T
WANT TO COMMIT I DON'T REALLY
EITHER PREMATURE HERE WE CAN'T
I MEAN WE CAN'T HAVE PEOPLE
THINKING THAT YOU KNOW IT'S
SOMETHING FOR THIS LITTLE BIT
ON IS COMPLETELY CRAZY ROAD.
>> YEAH.
>> WE'RE STILL AT A BIT OF AN
IMPASSE RIGHT HERE BECAUSE THE
QUESTION ON THE TABLE IS HOW TO
TRANSLATE.
>> YEAH.
ARE THREE OR FOUR AND THE
DESIRE WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO RECONCILE THE DESIRE TO
KNOCK DOWN SOMEONE BUT AT THE
SAME TIME IT'S TRANSITION A
LITTLE BIT TOO ONEROUS OF A
DESIGNATION ALSO ELEVEN
SEVENTEEN AT NIGHT THIRTY TO
YES SEVENTY ONE OF THAT'S GOING
TO SAY WELL I WANNA YEAH YEAH
OK COULD YOU MAYBE PUT A PIN ON
THIS AND THEN COME BACK BECAUSE
I THINK THIS REQUIRES A LITTLE
BIT MORE THOUGHT COMMUNITY
SCHEDULE.
>> YEAH WELL AND COULD WE PUT A
STATEMENT IN THE PLAN I DON'T
KNOW WHERE EXACTLY IS THE BEST
PLACE BUT IT MIGHT BE IN THIS
PART WHERE WE'RE TALKING EACH
OF THESE ZONES OR WHATEVER
WE'RE CALLING THEM WILL BE
REALIZED WITH MULTIPLE
DISTRICTS THAT REFLECT
DISTRICTS REALIZE WITH MULTIPLE
ZONES.
>> YOU KNOW, THAT'S WHAT'S ONE
OF THE STATS I THINK THAT'S IN
HERE UNDERSTAFF IS THERE WAS A
REQUEST TO CALL THESE WHEN YOU
SCATTERGOOD AND SAY THAT WITHIN
EACH CATEGORY THERE COULD BE
MULTIPLE DISTRICTS AND PERHAPS
NOT EVEN JUST COULD BUT WILL UP
FOR OUR NEXT DISCUSSION WE WILL
WORK TO TRY TO FIND I GUESS
WHAT I'M HEARING IS IDEALLY YOU
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE STILL FEWER
CATEGORIES.
SO I THINK WHAT I'M HEARING IS
A DESIRE TO RECATEGORIZE THESE
TWO TRANSITIONS GENERALLY THE
CURRENT ARE THREE OR FOUR.
HOWEVER, YOU WOULD LIKE TO
PERHAPS RECOGNIZE THAT THESE
ARE NOT GOING TO FOLLOW A
TYPICAL DC ONE TYPE
OF FRAMEWORK OR THEY ARE
BECAUSE IF THAT'S THE CASE I
WOULD SAY THAT JUST MAKE THEM
YELLOW.
THAT'S WHAT I'M SAYING.
I UNDERSTAND.
OK, I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
ON I DON'T WANT TO MAKE THAT
DECISION AFTER HAVING LOOKED AT
ONE OF SIXTEEN'S ZONES.
SO I THINK IT WOULD HELP ME TO
GET US TO TO LOOK AT A FEW MORE
AND THEN I DON'T WANT TO CHANGE
HOW WE CONCEIVE OF TRANSITION
BASED ON THIS ONE AREA THAT'S
FOR SURE.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS THAT ARTICULATION
OF WHAT I DON'T WANT AND I
THINK THERE IS AGREEMENT IS
THAT WE DON'T OWN SOMETHING
THAT IS ALREADY PERMITTED AS WE
MAKE THESE CHANGES AND
CERTAINLY OUR FORESE HAS A MAX
HEIGHT LIMIT AND WE'RE LOOKING
AT OUR FORESE CORRECT AND SOME
ARE THREE AND SOME OTHER
AIRPORT DISTRICTS WE'RE LOOKING
AT AH FOR A OH WELL SEE OUR
FORAY GOES UP TO FORTY FIVE
FEET SO SO THE ALL THE CONCERN
THAT YOU JUST ARTICULATED IS
ALREADY PRESENT BECAUSE IT CAN
GO TO FOUR AND A HALF STORIES
AND IF THEY GOT A HEIGHT BONUS
THEY CAN GO ANOTHER TWELVE FEET
SO THEY WOULD BE AT FIFTY SEVEN
FEET RIGHT NOW TODAY WITH OUR
CURRENT ZONE THEY DIDN'T THOUGH
THEY DIDN'T BUT THEY COULD AND
THESE FOLKS WHO LIVE ADJACENT
TO ALL OF THIS NOISY HOUSING
AREN'T PSYCHED ABOUT IT AND
PONTIAC TRAIL IS A TERRIBLE
PLACE TO RAISE CHILDREN.
>> ST. YOU JUST KIDDING?
NO IT'S GREAT BUT PEOPLE
EXPRESS A LOT OF FEAR ABOUT
THAT.
SURE.
THAT VERY FAST UNCONTROLLABLE
ROAD IT'S IT'S ONE OF THE MAIN
THINGS I HEAR SO SO IF WE MOVED
IT TO RESIDENTIAL IT WOULD
BALANCE ON IT BECAUSE I'M NOT
ORIENTED AROUND ZONING.
>> I'M JUST SAYING THAT THAT
THE HYPOTHETICALS THAT YOU'RE
THAT YOU'RE ADDING WHICH ARE
MATHEMATICAL ARE NOT REFLECTING
THE REALITY OF WHAT PEOPLE FEEL
THERE WHICH IS THAT IT'S
OVERCHARGED AS IT IS AND THINGS
DIDN'T REACH THE CAPACITY
THAT'S ALLOWABLE AND SO I'M OK
WITH TRANSITION.
I JUST WANT IT TO BE CLEAR THAT
THERE'S A RANGE I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE RANGES FROM IF IT'S
THE TICK ONE RANGE IT'S FIFTY
FIVE TO WHATEVER BUT IT'S NOT
SEVEN FEET LIKE IT DOESN'T
START AT SEVEN FEET TO YOURS
SEVEN IT'S OK WE KNOW WHAT
YOU'VE DONE YOU KNOW IT'S SO
BUT WE DON'T WANT TO PUT
HYDRANGEAS.
>> NO NO I DON'T THINK SO I
THINK WE WANT TO PUT LIKE THIS
ON IT'S GOING TO ADJUST JUST TO
BE CLEAR IF WE WERE TO TAKE
THAT RELIGIOUS SITE AND MAKE IT
TRANSITION AND WE WERE TO APPLY
TAKE ONE TYPE FRAMEWORK, I WANT
TO BE CLEAR THAT A GREAT
PERCENTAGE OF THAT PROPERTY IS
LIKELY TO COULD LIKELY GET TO
THE ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET
RANGE SO IF WE WERE TO JUSTIFY
THE ONE SO SO THAT'S SO THAT'S
YEAH.
THAT'S THE THAT'S THE
DIFFERENCE HERE.
THERE'S NO RIGHT OR WRONG IT'S
A POLICY DECISION AND SO I'M
HAPPY TO WORK ON HOW WE
RECONCILE THAT.
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
WHAT I AM HEARING.
I THINK TWO DISTINCT
PERSPECTIVES HERE.
ONE IS MAKING YELLOW AND THAT'S
FINE IF THAT IF THAT ENDS UP
MOST OF THAT BEING ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY FEET, THAT'S THE
INTENT THAT WE DON'T WANT TO WE
DON'T WANT TO LOSE THAT RIGHT
NOW IT'S FORTY FIVE.
LET'S OPEN UP POTENTIAL THERE
ALSO HEARING LIKE HMMM THAT
DOESN'T THAT DOESN'T FEEL RIGHT
TO OTHER COMMISSIONERS AND SO
THAT'S KIND.
>> WHAT WE GOT TO FIGURE OUT
HERE IS SOMETHING TO NOT WANT
TO TOWNSEND THAT WOULD BE A
PRETTY RADICAL ZONING TO GO
FROM MAYBE NOT FORTY FIVE FEET
UP TO 120 FEET.
WELL NO NOBODY'S SUGGESTING
WE'RE DOWN TO ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
FOOT TOWER THERE.
WELL I'M JUST SAYING IF YOU
JUST SAID YOU WOULD KNOW IF
IT'S TRANSITION WE'RE GOING TO
APPLY IT ONE TYPE FRAMEWORK
THAT'S CERTAINLY THE POLICY ONE
HAS STEPPED DOWN DC ONE IS
NEVER HUNDRED TWENTY FEET NEXT
TO RESIDENTIAL.
>> WELL IT'S WHEN YOU GET SO
FAR FROM RESIDENTIAL BUT WE'RE
NOT THAT FAR FROM RESIDENTIAL.
>> WELL YOU WOULD HAVE TO BE IF
I GUESS IT IS AND THAT SITE HAS
LOTS OF LAND IT'S MORE THAN 300
FEET FROM RESIDENTIAL.
YEAH BECAUSE THE OPEN SPACES
ARE SO AND APART FROM THAT
THAT'S MORE THAN THREE FEET
COULD BE 120 FEET.
>> SO THAT'S ACCORDING TO THE
CURRENT ONE ZONING LIKE WE ARE
SAYING THINGS ARE GOING TO GET
SOUND CLIPPED AND VERY ALONG.
SO I'M SORRY.
THAT'S RIGHT.
NOBODY IS SUGGESTING LET'S
REMEMBER THAT ON THIS SITE
NOTHING WAS PLANNED REASONS
ANYTHING OK, THAT'S ALL TRUE.
>> CAN WE LOOK AT A COUPLE
OF OTHER YEAH.
LET'S GO ASK CASES PROBABLY
IT'S TOO LATE AND SO WE SHOULD
BE TAKING THEM ALL IN
UNDERSTANDING THAT THIS IS A
THIS IS A REAL CHALLENGE
BECAUSE WE HAVE A REALLY
COMPLEX ZONING CODE RIGHT NOW
AND WE'RE TRYING TO SIMPLIFY IT
AND IN SIMPLIFYING IT WE MAY WE
REALLY MAY NOT BE SENSITIVE
ENOUGH TO CONTEXT AND I'M NOT
TALKING ABOUT CHARACTER BECAUSE
THIS THIS IS A VERY DENSE
CONTEXT IN VERY INADEQUATE
INFRASTRUCTURE AS IT IS SO I
DON'T UNDERSTAND WE HAVE ALL
THE CONTROLS.
>> WE'RE NOT LOSING ANY OF THE
MEANS, THE TOOLS THAT WE HAVE
AT OUR DISPOSAL TO USE TO BE TO
BE SENSITIVE.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW WHY I LET'S
LET'S BRING IT BACK.
I'D LIKE TO GET AS I SAID, I'D
LIKE TO ACTUALLY KEEP ORDER
HERE AS FAR AS SPEAKING WHICH
I'D LIKE TO DO BEFORE WE DOVE
INTO CHAPTER FIVE AND THE MAP
WHICH IS WHICH WE KIND
OF ALREADY DID BUT THERE'S A
LOT LEFT I'D LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
SCHEDULE SO THAT WE CAN KIND
OF LOOK AT A MACRO LEVEL VIEW
AND TALK ABOUT WHETHER THIS IS
MORE APPROPRIATELY AND MORE
RESPONSIBLY DISCUSSED NOT
BECAUSE I AM ALSO PRETTY TIRED
SUAPE PAST MY BEDTIME.
SO MICHEL, CAN YOU GIVE
AN IDEA
OF TIMELINE PLEASE?
>> YES.
SO YOUR NEXT MEETING IS JULY
8TH.
IT'S A WORKING SESSION AND I
THINK WORK IS ALREADY ON THE
AGENDA SO WE WOULDN'T COME BACK
TO DISCUSS THIS UNTIL JULY
15TH.
BUT IF WE ARE IN KEEPING WITH
HOW WE HAD ORIGINALLY PLANNED
THIS FOR TWO MEETINGS ON THIS
SECOND ROUND THAT WOULD BE THE
LAST MEETING AND YOU KNOW, WE
ONLY HAVE TWO CHAPTERS LEFT BUT
THEY ARE THE MOST SUBSTANTIAL.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW IF WE WANT
TO COME.
>> I MEAN WE ALREADY HAVE YOUR
NOTES BUT THERE ARE LIKE THIS
ONE RIGHT HERE THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HAS 18 PROPERTIES
ON IT BEFORE WE GET TO THE REST
OF IT.
SO I GUESS I'M SAYING IT COULD
BE A LENGTHY MEETING GOCHA WHEN
I MY THOUGHT PROCESS IS THAT
WE'RE DONE WITH LIKE ONE A AND
WE KIND OF NEED TO DO THE ONE B
GO THROUGH ONE SET OF REVISIONS
AND THEN HAVE OUR SECOND REVIEW
OF THE SECOND DRAFT.
>> GO AHEAD START THAT AGAIN
ALL THE WAY THROUGH.
BASICALLY WHAT I'M SAYING IS
THAT RIGHT NOW YOU SAID THAT WE
ARE SUPPOSED TO HAVE TWO
MEETINGS ABOUT THE SECOND DRAFT
IN MY HEAD LIKE DONE WITH ONE A
BUT NOT REALLY DONE WITH ONE B
CURRENTLY.
>> CORRECT.
AND THEN THE SACCHETTI IS GOING
TO BE JULY 15TH OK.
>> YUP GOT IT.
AND THEN WHEN WITH THE 2ND
MEETING BE WE'RE GOING TO THINK
THAT IS THE SECOND THIS IS THE
FIRST MEETING OK ON DRAFT AND
ON THE SECOND DRAFT SECOND I
GUESS WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY IS
LIKE THERE'S I THINK WE'RE
GOING TO NEED THREE JUST BASED
ON THE LENGTH OF THIS THEN WHAT
ABOUT OUR WORK SESSION?
>> UM, I WOULD TYPICALLY WE TRY
TO KEEP THOSE TWO AND WE DO
HAVE YOUR WORK ON IT.
WE WERE ALSO GOING TO GIVE YOU
SPACE IN CASE YOU WANTED TO
DISCUSS ANYTHING WITH YOUR
REGULARLY REQUIRED ANNUAL
BUSINESS SUCH AS BYLAWS AND THE
LIKE.
>> SO AND THERE'S NO VOTING.
YEAH.
WORK SESSIONS SO.
>> RIGHT.
I WOULD SUGGEST WE DEFINITELY
DO THE FIFTEENTH AND THEN WHAT
WE WILL DO IS DO A REVISED
CALENDAR THAT ALSO MAYBE
PROVIDES ANTICIPATION THAT
YOU'LL CARRY THAT OVER TO THE
TO THE SPECIAL MEETING FOR THE
WORK SCHEDULE FOR THE TWENTY
SECOND WHAT'S MY CALENDAR WHAT
WAS SCHEDULE OR SO HOW DOES
HAPPENING THAT COULD BE
HAPPENING.
SO I ASK YOU THAT IS THAT
YOU DON'T DENHA HAVE TO ASK.
HAPPENING.
I KNOW I WANT TO SAY THIS IS
YOU DON'T DENHA HAVE TO ASK.
LIKE TO MY MIND THE REALLY
I KNOW I WANT TO SAY THIS IS
IMPORTANT PART OF THE PLAN AND
LIKE TO MY MIND THE REALLY
THIS HAS BEEN REALLY HELPFUL TO
IMPORTANT PART OF THE PLAN AND
SIT HERE AND NOODLE WITH YOU
THIS HAS BEEN REALLY HELPFUL TO
ALL AND TRY TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
SIT HERE AND NOODLE WITH YOU
IT MEANS.
ALL AND TRY TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
>> CAPTAIN, I DON'T WANT TO
IT MEANS.
SHORTCHANGE THAT BECAUSE IF
>> CAPTAIN, I DON'T WANT TO
AGAIN IF WE DON'T GET IT RIGHT
SHORTCHANGE THAT BECAUSE IF
NOW IT'S JUST GOING TO BE HUGE
AGAIN IF WE DON'T GET IT RIGHT
TROUBLE CASCADING FORWARD.
NOW IT'S JUST GOING TO BE HUGE
>> SO I'D RATHER SLOW DOWN A
TROUBLE CASCADING FORWARD.
LITTLE BIT AND GET IT RIGHT AND
>> SO I'D RATHER SLOW DOWN A
SPEND THE TIME AND I'D RATHER
LITTLE BIT AND GET IT RIGHT AND
DO IT HERE IN PERSON THAN ON
SPEND THE TIME AND I'D RATHER
ZOOM BECAUSE THAT'S A HORRIBLE
DO IT HERE IN PERSON THAN ON
WAY TO TRY AND YOU LEARN THIS
ZOOM BECAUSE THAT'S A HORRIBLE
STUFF.
WAY TO TRY AND YOU LEARN THIS
>> SO I'M WILLING TO DO MORE
STUFF.
MEETINGS PERSONALLY IF THAT'S
>> SO I'M WILLING TO DO MORE
WHAT IT TAKES TO WORK THROUGH
MEETINGS PERSONALLY IF THAT'S
THIS.
WHAT IT TAKES TO WORK THROUGH
>> YES.
THIS.
I JUST WANT TO THAT THE MEETING
>> YES.
ON THE FIFTEENTH ACCORDING TO
I JUST WANT TO THAT THE MEETING
MY CALENDAR IS A SEVEN P.M.
ON THE FIFTEENTH ACCORDING TO
MEETING.
MY CALENDAR IS A SEVEN P.M.
SO MAYBE YOU WANT TO CHANGE
MEETING.
THAT TO A FIVE THIRTY BECAUSE
SO MAYBE YOU WANT TO CHANGE
THAT WORK FOR EVERYBODY.
THAT TO A FIVE THIRTY BECAUSE
YEAH, I SEE WHEN THEY MEET ON
THAT WORK FOR EVERYBODY.
THE 8TH TO UNLESS WE REALLY
YEAH, I SEE WHEN THEY MEET ON
NEED TO HAVE THE WORKING
THE 8TH TO UNLESS WE REALLY
SESSION WE CAN'T.
NEED TO HAVE THE WORKING
>> IS IT TOO LATE TO CONVERT
SESSION WE CAN'T.
THAT TO A REGULAR.
>> IS IT TOO LATE TO CONVERT
YEAH I KNOW THEY KEEP THAT AS
THAT TO A REGULAR.
WORK SESSION BECAUSE THAT'S THE
YEAH I KNOW THEY KEEP THAT AS
PROGRAM.
WORK SESSION BECAUSE THAT'S THE
>> ALL RIGHT AND THIS WORKS
PROGRAM.
GREAT BECAUSE I'M GOING TO BE
>> ALL RIGHT AND THIS WORKS
ON VACATION UNTIL I OK SO THE
GREAT BECAUSE I'M GOING TO BE
FIFTEENTH AND THEN MAYBE THE
ON VACATION UNTIL I OK SO THE
22ND IS NOT GOING TO BE IT'S
FIFTEENTH AND THEN MAYBE THE
NOT GOING TO BE THE TWENTY
22ND IS NOT GOING TO BE IT'S
SECOND IT'S GOING TO BE THE
NOT GOING TO BE THE TWENTY
PAIR WITH LIKE TUESDAY.
SECOND IT'S GOING TO BE THE
>> MM HMM.
PAIR WITH LIKE TUESDAY.
IF I AUGUST 5TH.
>> MM HMM.
>> OH YOU MEAN WE WOULD JUST
IF I AUGUST 5TH.
TOTALLY NOT ADD A MEETING.
>> OH YOU MEAN WE WOULD JUST
YEAH WELL YOU ALREADY HAVE
TOTALLY NOT ADD A MEETING.
THERE IS NO SCHEDULE AND WE'VE
YEAH WELL YOU ALREADY HAVE
GOT THREE THINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THERE IS NO SCHEDULE AND WE'VE
THAT WE HAVE BIKE PARKING.
GOT THREE THINGS SCHEDULED FOR
WE HAVE SIGNAGE FOR NEW
THAT WE HAVE BIKE PARKING.
DEVELOPMENTS WHICH I KNOW HAS
WE HAVE SIGNAGE FOR NEW
BEEN REALLY INTERESTING THOUGH
DEVELOPMENTS WHICH I KNOW HAS
BOTH THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BEEN REALLY INTERESTING THOUGH
AND THE COUNCIL AND WE ALSO
BOTH THE PLANNING COMMISSION
HAVE A PETITION INITIATED BY
AND THE COUNCIL AND WE ALSO
THE COMMUNITY LAND TRUSTS TO
HAVE A PETITION INITIATED BY
CHANGE OUR EU REGULATIONS.
THE COMMUNITY LAND TRUSTS TO
WHAT ABOUT THE TWENTY NINE?
CHANGE OUR EU REGULATIONS.
IT'S A THIRD OR WHATEVER DAY
WHAT ABOUT THE TWENTY NINE?
TUESDAY FIFTH TUESDAY OF THE
IT'S A THIRD OR WHATEVER DAY
MONTH.
TUESDAY FIFTH TUESDAY OF THE
>> YEAH WE COULD LOOK AT THAT
MONTH.
UM SORT AVAILABLE NOT TRYING I
>> YEAH WE COULD LOOK AT THAT
THINK I'M SURE I HAVE TO GO AND
UM SORT AVAILABLE NOT TRYING I
I'M GONE THE TWENTY NINTH
THINK I'M SURE I HAVE TO GO AND
THROUGH THE ELEVENTH I THINK I
I'M GONE THE TWENTY NINTH
HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE SIDEWALK
THROUGH THE ELEVENTH I THINK I
MEETING OR THEY WILL KILL ME.
HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE SIDEWALK
>> OH AND ACTUALLY WE HAVE A
MEETING OR THEY WILL KILL ME.
MEETING AND NO MEETING THEN NO
>> OH AND ACTUALLY WE HAVE A
.
MEETING AND NO MEETING THEN NO
>> OH WELL WE COULD PROBABLY DO
.
THIS YOU KNOW WE DON'T
>> OH WELL WE COULD PROBABLY DO
NECESSARILY WE DON'T NEED IT WE
THIS YOU KNOW WE DON'T
DON'T PLAN ON FINDING THE BEST
NECESSARILY WE DON'T NEED IT WE
DATE FOR ANOTHER MONTH.
DON'T PLAN ON FINDING THE BEST
HE'S PLANNING ON CONVERTING THE
DATE FOR ANOTHER MONTH.
JULY 15TH MEETING TO AT FIVE
HE'S PLANNING ON CONVERTING THE
THIRTY START CUP ACURA LAUNCHES
JULY 15TH MEETING TO AT FIVE
.
THIRTY START CUP ACURA LAUNCHES
OK, GOT IT.
.
SO I WON'T BE PROVIDING PIZZA
OK, GOT IT.
FOR OK GOTCHA.
SO I WON'T BE PROVIDING PIZZA
>> AND SO WE ARE RIGHT NOW WE
FOR OK GOTCHA.
ARE PINNING IT AT CHAPTER FIVE
>> AND SO WE ARE RIGHT NOW WE
ON THE PAGE ONE OH NINE
ARE PINNING IT AT CHAPTER FIVE
DISCUSSION.
ON THE PAGE ONE OH NINE
YES.
DISCUSSION.
SO ALL RIGHT THAT'S WHERE ONE
YES.
OF US RIGHT.
SO ALL RIGHT THAT'S WHERE ONE
>> CAN YOU SEND US THIS STACK
OF US RIGHT.
WE WERE ABOUT TO GO THROUGH?
>> CAN YOU SEND US THIS STACK
>> YEAH I THINK YOU OK GREAT.
WE WERE ABOUT TO GO THROUGH?
I MADE THE REQUEST TO
>> YEAH I THINK YOU OK GREAT.
RECONSIDER BY THE ARTICLE UPON
I MADE THE REQUEST TO
THIS ONE.
RECONSIDER BY THE ARTICLE UPON
ANY OTHER SERVICE PEOPLE WOULD
THIS ONE.
LIKE ADDED AAGOT POND.
ANY OTHER SERVICE PEOPLE WOULD
>> OH YEAH.
LIKE ADDED AAGOT POND.
THAT'S FROM THE PUBLIC COMMENT
>> OH YEAH.
.
THAT'S FROM THE PUBLIC COMMENT
>> YES YEAH YEAH.
.
PLEASE ADD AAGOT POND.
>> YES YEAH YEAH.
>> YEAH.
PLEASE ADD AAGOT POND.
SO UM YEAH I HAVE LIKE SIX
>> YEAH.
PAGES OF NOTES FROM PUBLIC
SO UM YEAH I HAVE LIKE SIX
COMMENT EMAIL OK ALI O'MALIA OK
PAGES OF NOTES FROM PUBLIC
THAT'S GOING TO TAKE US WITH
COMMENT EMAIL OK ALI O'MALIA OK
THAT.
THAT'S GOING TO TAKE US WITH
WE'RE GOING TO ACTUALLY
THAT.
CONSIDER THIS PORTION OF THE
WE'RE GOING TO ACTUALLY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SECOND DRAFT
CONSIDER THIS PORTION OF THE
REVIEW CLOSED.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SECOND DRAFT
>> WE'RE GOING TO NOW MOVE ON
REVIEW CLOSED.
TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO NOW MOVE ON
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE WILL
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE AND THEN
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE WILL
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE AND THEN
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
ON THE PHONE OR USE THE RAISED
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
HAND FEATURE FONT ZOOM AND
ON THE PHONE OR USE THE RAISED
PHONE ACCESS.
HAND FEATURE FONT ZOOM AND
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
PHONE ACCESS.
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING ID NINE
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING ID NINE
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE YEARS
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE YEARS
ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
AREA COMMUNITY BACKGROUND NOISE
ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AND FOR PARTICIPANTS PLEASE
AREA COMMUNITY BACKGROUND NOISE
STATE YOUR FIRST NAME AND YOUR
AND FOR PARTICIPANTS PLEASE
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
STATE YOUR FIRST NAME AND YOUR
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
>> ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD LIKE
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME.
>> ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD LIKE
HELLO EVERYONE.
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME.
OH GOSH IT'S LATE.
HELLO EVERYONE.
>> TWELVE SIXTY ONE SPENDING
OH GOSH IT'S LATE.
ROADY.
>> TWELVE SIXTY ONE SPENDING
>> I REALLY APPRECIATED
ROADY.
LISTENING IN ON THIS
>> I REALLY APPRECIATED
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE
LISTENING IN ON THIS
POTENTIAL DOWN ZONING THESE
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE
TRANSITION AREAS.
POTENTIAL DOWN ZONING THESE
I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE THE
TRANSITION AREAS.
COMMISSION TO THINK ABOUT THIS
I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE THE
HOLISTICALLY.
COMMISSION TO THINK ABOUT THIS
RIGHT.
HOLISTICALLY.
SO REMEMBER WE ARE GAINING A
RIGHT.
TREMENDO AMOUNT OF ZONING IN
SO REMEMBER WE ARE GAINING A
THIS PLAN AND SO I HOPE WE CAN
TREMENDO AMOUNT OF ZONING IN
VIEW THESE MAYBE SMALLER
THIS PLAN AND SO I HOPE WE CAN
SECTIONS WHERE MAYBE IT DOES
VIEW THESE MAYBE SMALLER
ACTUALLY MAKE SENSE THAT DOWN
SECTIONS WHERE MAYBE IT DOES
ZONE TO THE RESIDENTIAL WHERE
ACTUALLY MAKE SENSE THAT DOWN
WE ARE STILL GETTING TOWNHOUSES
ZONE TO THE RESIDENTIAL WHERE
THREE STORIES ET CETERA MIGHT
WE ARE STILL GETTING TOWNHOUSES
ALSO MAKE SENSE.
THREE STORIES ET CETERA MIGHT
SO THAT'S JUST MY INPUT THERE.
ALSO MAKE SENSE.
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO TOUCH
SO THAT'S JUST MY INPUT THERE.
BASE COMMISSIONER, I APOLOGIZE.
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO TOUCH
I WAS NOT AWARE THAT THE CITY
BASE COMMISSIONER, I APOLOGIZE.
COUNCIL DID NOT APPROVE THE
I WAS NOT AWARE THAT THE CITY
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
COUNCIL DID NOT APPROVE THE
RECOMMENDATION.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
I THOUGHT I AM ALIVE AND IT
RECOMMENDATION.
SAID APPROVED NEXT THE MEETING
I THOUGHT I AM ALIVE AND IT
MINUTES.
SAID APPROVED NEXT THE MEETING
BUT THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING
MINUTES.
THAT BUT I HOPE THAT MY
BUT THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING
PETITION IS STILL HEARD NOT
THAT BUT I HOPE THAT MY
WRITTEN OFF IN SPITE OF THAT
PETITION IS STILL HEARD NOT
ERROR IN ESSENTIALLY WHAT I'M
WRITTEN OFF IN SPITE OF THAT
SAYING IS THIS RIGHT?
ERROR IN ESSENTIALLY WHAT I'M
SO WE HAVE AN ENVIRONMENTAL
SAYING IS THIS RIGHT?
COMMISSION OR WE HAD AN
SO WE HAVE AN ENVIRONMENTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION.
COMMISSION OR WE HAD AN
WE HAVE NATURAL FEATURES THAT
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION.
ARE CODIFIED WHETHER THAT'S THE
WE HAVE NATURAL FEATURES THAT
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION OR THE
ARE CODIFIED WHETHER THAT'S THE
NATURAL FEATURES LAND AND THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION OR THE
REPRESENTATION OF THAT
NATURAL FEATURES LAND AND THE
CODE IN A LOCAL GOVERNMENT IS
REPRESENTATION OF THAT
ASKING CITY COUNCIL TO ASK YOU
CODE IN A LOCAL GOVERNMENT IS
I KNOW THIS IS KIND
ASKING CITY COUNCIL TO ASK YOU
OF HILARIOUS TO CONSIDER AND
I KNOW THIS IS KIND
PRIORITIZE THOSE NATURAL
OF HILARIOUS TO CONSIDER AND
FEATURES GOING SO FAR AS TO
PRIORITIZE THOSE NATURAL
SUGGEST SPECIFIC LANGUAGE TO BE
FEATURES GOING SO FAR AS TO
INCLUDED IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
SUGGEST SPECIFIC LANGUAGE TO BE
PLAN.
INCLUDED IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
AND AGAIN I CENTER ALL OF THIS
PLAN.
AND THAT DEBATE AROUND AAGOT
AND AGAIN I CENTER ALL OF THIS
POND BECAUSE I THINK THAT IS A
AND THAT DEBATE AROUND AAGOT
SPECIAL AREA THAT IS ENJOYED BY
POND BECAUSE I THINK THAT IS A
SO MANY AND I THINK THOSE
SPECIAL AREA THAT IS ENJOYED BY
NATURAL BENEFITS SHOULD BE
SO MANY AND I THINK THOSE
PROTECTED WITH LOWER DENSITY.
NATURAL BENEFITS SHOULD BE
AND AGAIN, I ALSO JUST ECHO
PROTECTED WITH LOWER DENSITY.
THERE ARE TRADEOFFS IN ALL
AND AGAIN, I ALSO JUST ECHO
OF THIS.
THERE ARE TRADEOFFS IN ALL
RIGHT.
OF THIS.
SO THAT'S YOU KNOW, I AGREE
RIGHT.
WITH YOU MANAGER.
SO THAT'S YOU KNOW, I AGREE
YOU CANNOT HAVE IT ALL.
WITH YOU MANAGER.
I UNDERSTAND THAT FULL WELL.
YOU CANNOT HAVE IT ALL.
AND AGAIN, I'M JUST ASKING THAT
I UNDERSTAND THAT FULL WELL.
IF WE ARE GOING TO DENSIFY OUR
AND AGAIN, I'M JUST ASKING THAT
NEIGHBORHOODS, PLEASE PROVIDE
IF WE ARE GOING TO DENSIFY OUR
PROTECTION IN TERMS OF LAND USE
NEIGHBORHOODS, PLEASE PROVIDE
DISTRICTS AROUND SPECIAL
PROTECTION IN TERMS OF LAND USE
ECOLOGICAL AREAS AND PUBLIC
DISTRICTS AROUND SPECIAL
NATURAL AREAS LIKE THOSE NEAR
ECOLOGICAL AREAS AND PUBLIC
ARGO.
NATURAL AREAS LIKE THOSE NEAR
THANK YOU.
ARGO.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE
THANK YOU.
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
>> MR. WESTFALL HELLO CARQUEST
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
WESTHOFF THIRTY FIVE THIRTY
>> MR. WESTFALL HELLO CARQUEST
FIVE MICROPLACE I WOKE UP SAID
WESTHOFF THIRTY FIVE THIRTY
THANKS FOR TAKING TIME EXTRA
FIVE MICROPLACE I WOKE UP SAID
TIME WITH THE MAP I THINK AS AS
THANKS FOR TAKING TIME EXTRA
WAS INFERRED BY A COMMISSIONER
TIME WITH THE MAP I THINK AS AS
EVEN THOUGH A LOT OF THESE
WAS INFERRED BY A COMMISSIONER
PROPERTIES ARE NOT GOING TO GET
EVEN THOUGH A LOT OF THESE
DEVELOPED IN THE VERY NEAR
PROPERTIES ARE NOT GOING TO GET
FUTURE SOME WILL LIKE THE ONE
DEVELOPED IN THE VERY NEAR
NEAR STADIUM AND INDUSTRIAL
FUTURE SOME WILL LIKE THE ONE
PARK MEADOWS OR WHATEVER IT WAS
NEAR STADIUM AND INDUSTRIAL
YOU KNOW SOME OF THESE
PARK MEADOWS OR WHATEVER IT WAS
COMPLEXES THAT ARE ARCHWAYS OR
YOU KNOW SOME OF THESE
PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED AND THEY
COMPLEXES THAT ARE ARCHWAYS OR
WANT TO YOU THEIR CLUBHOUSES
PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED AND THEY
FALLING DOWN AND THEY WANT TO
WANT TO YOU THEIR CLUBHOUSES
BUILD A SIX, EIGHT, 10 STOREY
FALLING DOWN AND THEY WANT TO
BUILDING IF IT'S TWO, THREE
BUILD A SIX, EIGHT, 10 STOREY
HUNDRED FEET FROM OUR ONE OR
BUILDING IF IT'S TWO, THREE
TWO, WHY ARE WE GOING TO MAKE
HUNDRED FEET FROM OUR ONE OR
THEM GO THROUGH, YOU KNOW,
TWO, WHY ARE WE GOING TO MAKE
AREZZO OR WHATEVER IT IS?
THEM GO THROUGH, YOU KNOW,
I MEAN TRANSITION ALREADY IS
AREZZO OR WHATEVER IT IS?
CALLED OUT IN THE PLAN AS
I MEAN TRANSITION ALREADY IS
TAPERING DOWN TO A COMPATIBLE
CALLED OUT IN THE PLAN AS
HEIGHT WITH WITH LOW RISE
TAPERING DOWN TO A COMPATIBLE
RESIDENTIAL.
HEIGHT WITH WITH LOW RISE
SO
I THINK THE COMPARISON TO
T.S. ONE IS APT BECAUSE THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
ACCEPTED AS A SELF TAPERING
ZONE.
IT CAN IT CAN WORK.
I MEAN IT'S THERE IT'S ON THE
BOOKS AND SO I THINK TRANSITION
SHOULD DO THAT TOO.
AND AND IT'S UP TO YOU ALL IN
THE COMMUNITY TO DECIDE HOW
MUCH AGENCY YOU WANT TO GIVE
PEOPLE TO DECIDE HOW TALL A
BUILDING GO TWO TO THREE
HUNDRED FEET FROM THEIR
PROPERTY LINE.
IT'S IT'S JUST HOUSING.
SO THAT'S THAT CAN BE DEBATED
IN THE ZONING.
BUT I APPRECIATE THAT YOU'RE
TAKING THIS SERIOUSLY.
I THINK ANY KIND OF PROCESS
THAT YOU'RE GOING THROUGH TO
CATEGORIZE AS CURRENT ZONING
DISTRICTS INTO THESE LAND USE
CATEGORIES, THE MORE RIGOROUS
YOU CAN BE ABOUT WHY YOU'RE
SHUNTING SOME OFF OR MAKING
EXCEPTIONS FOR OTHERS IS
IMPORTANT.
SO I THANK YOU FOR TAKING A
CLOSER LOOK AT THE MAP AND
SPENDING MORE TIME.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
>> WE HAVE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME.
HELLO.
>> HI MY NAME IS LISA JAVINS.
I LIVE AT TEN FIFTY FOR MARTIN
PLACE.
I HAVE COME HERE TO DELIVER
SOMETHING TO YOU.
IT'S NOT A PIZZA.
OH IT IS THE TPL DATA TRUST FOR
PUBLIC LAND FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
IT IS MY HOPE THAT YOU WILL DO
TWO THINGS WITH THIS DATA.
NUMBER ONE UPDATE THE TPL DATA
SO THAT IT REFLECTS THE
PROPOSED PLAN AND NUMBER TWO,
PLEASE USE THE PROPOSED PLAN
PAQUES DATA TO CALCULATE THE
CORRECT NUMBER OF ACRES PER ONE
THOUSAND RESIDENTS IN ANN
ARBOR.
I KNOW THAT DIDN'T COME UP
TONIGHT IN THE AREAS THAT YOU
DISCUSSED BUT I'M ASSUMING IT
WILL IN THE FUTURE AND THIS
PLAN WILL NOT BE VALID UNTIL
THIS IS RECONCILED.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
OK, DO WE HAVE ANY MORE
CALLERS?
>> ALL RIGHT.
COLOR THE PHONE NUMBER AND ONE
FIVE THREE FOUR YOU CAN UNMUTED
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR THREE MINUTES.
>> HELLO, THIS IS TOM STALBERG
AGAIN CALLING FROM ONE THREE
TWO ZERO TWO LOWERTOWN AND I'D
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT THREE THINGS
ARE TO EMPHASIZE WHAT GREG
MONROE SAID ABOUT THE AAGOT
AREA AND LIKE TO MAKE SURE THAT
YOU ALL READ HIS LETTER THAT'S
ON YOUR AGENDA.
IT'S AN EXCELLENT LETTER.
WELL, PUT TOGETHER IN TERMS
OF THE TRANSITION DISTRICT IN
AREAS LIKE THAT, I'LL READ YOU
THE LAST FIVE WORDS THAT THE
DESCRIPTION OF THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT WITH THE KEY NODES AND
CORRIDORS THAT AREA CERTAINLY
DOESN'T MEET THAT AS DO OTHER
PRIMARILY RESIDENTIAL AREAS TWO
STOREY RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
THERE ARE CALLS FOR TRANSITION
DISTRICTS MAYBE BECAUSE THEY
WERE PREVIOUSLY ZONED OUT FOR
THE SECOND POINT I'D LIKE TO
SAY IT'S THE SUPPORT WE CAN,
GOBBER SAID ABOUT THE THIRTY
PERCENT BONUS AND HOW YOU KNOW,
DEFINITELY WELL INTENTIONED AND
GOOD IDEA AND I'M IN FAVOR
OF THAT TYPE OF THING.
BUT THE WAY IT WORKS OUT IN
TERMS OF SUSTAINABILITY VERSUS
AFFORDABILITY AND THE CHOICE
AND THE DOLLARS AND CENTS FOR
DEVELOPERS IT COULD USE A
REVIEW AND TWEAKING TO MAKE IT
MORE EFFECTIVE.
THEY'RE IN THE LAST SITE AND
KIND OF TIES INTO THAT WHOLE
FOR THE RECORD ON THE BEEKMAN
LOWERTOWN AREA IN THE SPRING
OF 2017.
LET'S CALL THAT BY THE PLANNING
MEMO IN RESPONSE TO THE
DEVELOPER THAT HAVING LESS THAN
ONE PERCENT RETAIL THERE WAS
ESSENTIALLY A SEPARATE
COMMERCIAL USE AND NOT REALLY
APPROPRIATE FOR THE ZONING THEY
WERE SEEKING AND ALL THE PATS
ON THE BACK FOR HOW THAT THAT
DEVELOPMENT HAS EXPLODED
COMMERCIAL AROUND THE AREA ARE
ALL THE SHOPS THERE WERE ALL
THERE THERE JUST DIFFERENT
RESTAURANTS AND ANY RESTAURANT
WHERE IT USED TO BE PIZZA PLACE
HAS GONE NOW TO MEXICAN PLACE
FIRST THING BEEKMAN DID A
MORNING SIDE DID WAS GET RID
OF OUR GROCERY STORE MONE THAT
WAS DOWN THERE ABOUT THIRTY
FIVE FOOT SQUARE FOOT ASIAN
GROCERY STORE ORANGE MARKET IS
HALF THE SIZE AND NOTHING NEAR
THE CALIBER OF THAT.
SO THE ONE THING WE CAME DOWN
THERE IN TERMS OF ANY SIZE
SQUARE FOOTAGE THE ONLY THING
WE GAINED IS THE LOWER TOWN BAR
AND COFFEE SHOP WHICH I DO NOT
HAVE FREQUENT WITH JOHNNY
RUSH'S BARBERSHOP TO BE.
SO IT'S NOT TRUE WHAT WAS SAID
AT THE COUNCIL TABLE EARLIER IN
TERMS OF CAUSE AND EFFECT AND
THE VOLUME OF WHAT WE'VE GOT WE
HAVEN'T MET HARDLY ANYTHING AT
ALL WHATSOEVER.
THIRTY MORE SECONDS MAYBE WE'LL
GET MORE LATER.
SO I ALSO WANT TO REMIND YOU
THAT THAT CAME ABOUT BECAUSE
OF THE LAWSUIT AND SETTLEMENT
THAT OVERPLANT PROJECTS WHICH
HAD TO BE ELIMINATED BECAUSE
THEY WERE NOT IN COMPLIANCE
HAGGLING AND THAT'S HOW WE GOT
THAT 30 PERCENT BONUS.
SO ALL TIES BACK IN THE
BEGINNING I HOPE WE CAN TWEAK
THAT 30 PERCENT ON THIS IDEA
AND EXPAND IT TO OTHER USES
BECAUSE I THINK THERE'S MERIT
THERE.
THANK YOU.
>> DO WE HAVE OTHER CALLERS?
WE DO COLOR PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH ONE NINE FOUR YOU CAN MUTE
AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO HI THIS IS RITA
MITCHELL CALLING FROM 621 FIFTH
STREET.
>> I'M COMMISSIONER OF THE NEW
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION.
THAT'S ME.
I'M ALSO A COMMISSIONER OF A
RECENTLY DECOMMISSIONED
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION.
I APPRECIATE THAT STAFF WORK TO
INCORPORATE REFERENCES TO
NATURAL FEATURES INTO THE DRAFT
TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> BUT THERE'S MORE WORK THAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE.
THE RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE
SENT YOU FROM THE COMMISSION
ARE INTENDED TO ADDRESS NATURAL
FEATURES MORE BROADLY THAN THEY
ARE CURRENTLY IN THE CITY CODES
AND TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT NATURAL
FEATURES OCCUR BEYOND PARK
BOUNDARIES AND PROVIDE BROAD
BENEFITS OF COMMUNITY.
>> I HAVE A COUNCIL COUNCIL TO
RECONSIDER THE APPROACH AND TO
FORMALLY TURN THE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THIS
PURPOSE COMPENSATION PLAN.
MY CONCERN SPECIFICALLY TONIGHT
IS WHEN YOU DISCUSS THE
PROTECTION, THE NATURAL
FEATURES THAT ARE CURRENTLY IN
EFFECT, I SHALL.
THE CONVERSATION GLOSSED OVER
THE POINT THAT THESE
PROJECTIONS ESPECIALLY FOR
TREES ARE IN EFFECT THE SITE
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
THE WHOLE REST OF THE CITY IS
NOT PROTECTED AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT REALLY NEEDS
CONSIDERATION.
WE NEED THE NATURAL FEATURES
NOT ONLY IN PARKS AND WE NEED
TO TAKE CARE OF THAT BECAUSE
ULTIMATELY THOSE THINGS TAKE
CARE OF US.
SO I'M ASKING YOU TO TAKE A
BROADER PICTURE TO TRY TO LOOK
AT THIS AND USING I HEARD THE
STATEMENT THAT YOU CAN'T HAVE
IT ALL BUT I THINK WE NEED TO
GET REALLY MORE CREATIVE AND
REALLY THINK ABOUT THE THINGS
THAT WE NEED AS WE MOVE
FORWARD.
>> I UNDERSTAND YOUR GOAL TO
FOCUS ON DENSITY.
>> I SEE IT HAPPENING AND I
JUST THINK THAT WE HAVE TO LIVE
WITH NATURE.
PLEASE RECONSIDER.
>> THANK YOU FOR THANK YOU
.
>> LUIS VASQUEZ.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
THANK YOU, MR. BARNETT AND LUIS
VASQUEZ NINE ZERO NINE BARTON
DRIVE IN UPPER LOWER TONE.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
IMPEDES BUSINESS IN THE
LOWERTOWN AREA AND WITH BEEKMAN
IS THE EXTENSIVE CAR HOUSING
THAT WAS BUILT BY THE
UNIVERSITY IF THOSE HAD BEEN
APARTMENT BUILDINGS I THINK WE
WOULD HAVE A MUCH MORE VIBRANT
LOWER TOWN.
THANK YOU TO LISA DISH FOR
MENTIONING PONTIAC SPEEDWAY AND
BARTON RACEWAY IN YOUR COMMENT
TONIGHT.
THERE'S SOMETHING THAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE ABOUT THAT AND AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE MEETING I
MENTIONED THE CHANGES MADE BY
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA CITY
COUNCIL.
THERE'S A GREAT ARTICLE
PRODUCED BY KQED AND I'M JUST
GOING TO READ A COUPLE
OF EXCERPTS OUT OF IT AMID A
GENERATIONALLY DIVIDED DEBATE
THAT BERKELEY CITY COUNCIL LAST
THURSDAY UNANIMOUSLY VOTED TO
OVERTURN A MORE THAN CENTURY
OLD HOUSING POLICY ALLOWING
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS AND
MOST OF THE CITY THE MIDDLE
HOUSING ORDINANCE WHICH I WOULD
URGE YOU TO LOOK UP WILL PERMIT
THREE STOREY BUILDINGS WITH UP
TO EIGHT UNITS ON A TYPICAL
5000 SQUARE FOOT LOT NOT
INCLUDING ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNITS.
THE ACTUAL NUMBER WILL VARY ON
WHAT SIZE AND CITY THE CHANGES
WILL APPLY CITYWIDE.
THE PROPOSAL MUST COME BACK TO
THE COUNCIL FOR A SECOND
READING IN JULY AND IS EXPECTED
TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN NOVEMBER.
IT COMES FOUR YEARS AFTER
FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER LAURIE
DROSTE INTRODUCED A RESOLUTION
TO END EXCLUSION REZONING IN
THE CITY.
>> THE UNANIMOUS VOTE JUST
BEFORE MIDNIGHT FOLLOWED A
NEARLY SIX HOUR MEETING
PUNCTUATED BY A SOMETIMES
RAUCOUS CROWD.
SOUND FAMILIAR?
MORE THAN 100 HUNDRED PEOPLE
SPOKE DURING PUBLIC COMMENT
WITH OPINIONS SPLIT ROUGHLY
60-40 IN SUPPORT.
SUPPORTERS INCLUDED STUDENT
RENTERS, PARENTS WITH SMALL
CHILDREN IN TOW AND MILLENNIALS
WHO ADVOCATED FOR MORE DIVERSE
HOUSING OPTIONS TO MEET THE
NEEDS OF YOUNG PEOPLE AND
FAMILIES TRYING TO GAIN OR KEEP
A TOEHOLD IN BERKELEY
.
IF YOU IF YOU CHANGE BERKELEY
FOR ANN ARBOR YOU WOULD SEE THE
SAME THING.
>> IT'S IRONIC.
>> OK, AM I OUT OF TIME 30
SECONDS, 30 MORE SECONDS.
>> THEY CONFRONTED A GROUP
COMPOSED LARGELY OF HOMEOWNERS
WHO HAD BOUGHT INTO BERKELEY
DECADES AGO AND WERE WORRIED
ABOUT THAT THE PROPOSAL WOULD
HAVE THE OPPOSITE OF ITS
INTENDED EFFECT DRIVING OUT
MORE WORKING FAMILIES AND
CHANGING THE CITY BEYOND
RECOGNITION.
I'M GOING TO CONCLUDE WITH THIS
QUOTE IN 1973 BERKELEY CITIZENS
PASSED THE NEIGHBORHOOD
PRESERVATION ORDINANCE, SAID
RESIDENT CLIFFORD FRED.
NOW FIFTY TWO YEARS LATER WERE
POISED TO PASS THE NEIGHBORHOOD
DESTRUCTION ORDINANCE.
>> I'M AFRAID TO SAY THANK YOU.
KEEP GOING.
KEEP MOVING FORWARD.
I APPRECIATE THE WORK THAT
YOU'RE DOING AND I HOPE FOR A
VERY FRUITFUL OUTCOME FOR THE
ACLU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> NO OTHER IS TRULY ALL RIGHT
WITH THAT I'M GOING TO CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE RIGHT ON
TO PROPOSED COMMERCIAL
BUSINESS.
>> IS THERE ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS?
>> I JUST HAVE ONE CLARIFYING
QUESTION.
I PROMISE IT'S QUICK.
OK, EARLIER PLANNING MANAGER
KELLY SAID ONLY CHAIR COULDN'T
RUN.
I THOUGHT IF YOU SERVED TWO
TERMS ON THE EXECUTIVE TEAM YOU
WERE DISQUALIFIED FOR RUNNING
AGAIN.
NO, YOU CAN'T JUST SERVE IN THE
SAME SPECIFIC ROLE FOUR TIMES
IN A ROW.
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE MOVE ON TO A
GERMAN MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE SECOND BY
COMMISSIONER.
I SAW THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I.
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
I OWE